The goat answered:
I tiptoed down the path and stooped behind the low wall which
the window and said, "I cannot let any one in. The Seven Dwarfs have
sink directly.  His brave companion jumped in after him, at the risk of
would do, he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished
"To what use is he put, then?" asked the young apprentice.
said she to Maid Maleen, "A great piece of luck has befallen you. I
she called all seven to her and said, "Dear Children, I have to go
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
hearty draught.
at ten o'clock. We know that that was the place and hour of his
I was still rather raw over the deception which had been
me in! You have indeed much to answer for."
"drowned in passing to Newhaven."
rival in his love. Her fidelity turned in an instant to bitter
just take what comes, so long as the sack is but full."
cover himself.
* * * * *
_2 Servant._ You shall have none ill, sir, for I'll
jot of suffering or sympathy. Far from the want of harmony that has been
So she scraped at it for four-and-twenty hours, but could not bring off
of her age in the confessional, is prone to resort to, when first left
very sorrowfully, then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his
exquisite bloom of the brunette, the dainty pink which lurks at
were acting as his agents and assistants. I had often suffered
emendations have been suggested. With the reading in the text the
Call, good Mercutio.
again to misfortune.
that anything happened to our young friend here--you will forgive
THE PENN
_Hen. V._ iv. 2. 29.
In carrion-flies than Romeo. They may seize
"In a very few minutes, sir. You will find hot water in your
the King's Son.
"But about this stranger," said I. "Can you tell me anything
be the King."
134. _Who._ See on i. 1. 109 above.
To frame thought best, as bringing most delight,
between herself and her husband. In that case, regarding
[Illustration: HE SAID, "LITTLE TABLE SET THYSELF!"]
Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.                            70
God pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
speech. Nay, in the interlude of _The Repentance of Mary Magdalene_,
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did.
had a moral purpose. It will be remembered that Stephen Gosson, in his
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.                     100
49. _Confessor._ For the accent, see on ii. 6. 21 above.
My first impulse was to tell Sir Henry all my plans. My second
A doctrine of obedience," etc.
"If you are willing so am I," said he.
[Illustration]
leaves no part of her store behind her." _Her store_ may mean "beauty's
which your wife will bring into the world. It shall be well treated,
Then she went to Grethel, shook her till she awoke, and cried, "Get up,
and drew the curtains.
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, "Lenore!"--
72.  The Quadrant, Regent Street.
laying a trap for the old man, and he dared not leave her long
"Just keep your noise to yourself," said the Old Woman, "all that won't
"When did he say this?"
But over the hills, where the Seven Dwarfs dwell,
happiness.
that they cannot ride roughshod over the rights of the commoners,
200. _Mercy but murthers_, etc. Malone quotes Hale, _Memorials_: "When I
The soldier spent the whole day in doing it, and in the evening the
succeeded by a sad voice, which I had difficulty in recognizing as that
county.  Though Sir Charles had resided at Baskerville Hall for
horse-dealer, was on the moor at no great distance at the
"You knew him, did you not?"
see the Grimpen postmaster and find whether the test telegram had
out of her mouth. Thereupon she related what had happened to her in the
return for it, I have been obliged to promise you to a savage Lion.
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
Where is your mother?'
9. _Highmost._ Cf. _Sonn._ 7. 9: "But when from highmost pitch, with
57. _Good-den._ Printed "godden" and "gooden" in the early eds., and a
"but the Golden Horse also belongs to the maiden of the Golden Castle."
and the participle.
"Your request is a very reasonable one," Holmes answered. "Dr.
"You, our King?" cried the birds angrily. "You have done this by trick
mounted so high that he could have picked the eyes out of the sun. And
occasional songs and interludes) are all in unrhymed or _blank_ verse;
"No," said he, "I was in the box-room at the time, and my wife
Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
I knew that seclusion and solitude were very necessary for my
in general. Here it is = waste time, as the context shows. Cf. _M.W._
"Twenty-four hours. At ten o'clock tomorrow, Dr. Mortimer, I will
THE SEVEN RAVENS                                                  69
the other."
Daughter's bedchamber. When Simpleton came to the lake, the ducks which
Holmes shrugged his shoulders.
kind and dutiful to her before this sorrowful day comes; or else it will
Of limping winter treads, even such delight
And simple early bloom;
deal double with her, truly it were an ill thing to be
led through it, one of them a seven days' journey, and the other only
_Nurse._ Peter!                                                  100
Then the Queen began to weep and cry, so that the Little Man pitied
Hereupon she was terrified, and said, "Ah, heavens! Then it is not I,"
"My friend Mortimer told me."
suggested by _seal_ and _bargain_; but the leading meaning is that of
jewels, or your golden crown, but if you will love me and let me be
The hum of multitudes was there, but multitudes of lambs;
tell you it is all as new to me as it is to Dr. Watson, and I'm
dull--less for you, perhaps, than for your sister."
called to see him.  Methinks I hear the lady say, "See, my dear children,
*       *       *       *       *
So the man went, and when he got there the whole palace was made of
front of the house-door, as the Wise Woman had counseled her to do.
said, and a couple of healthy new eyes filled the sockets.
his arm the man was gone. There was the sharp pinnacle of granite
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
_Lady Capulet._ Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time,
to leave, thinking that Romeo is merely jesting with him. Cf. 79 below.
Which are the children of an idle brain,
May Heaven pity us! If our mother only knew! Come, we will go forth
11. _A torch._ Maskers were regularly attended by torch-bearers. The
53. _Queen Mab._ No earlier instance of _Mab_ as the name of the
sit down and rest a while. I am so tired, that I can no longer stand on
was to cultivate a friendship with Sir Charles Baskerville and
_Tybalt._ Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
shut up in it.
of Eleanor, his wife, who was with him, and sucked the venom out of the
"My word, it isn't a very cheerful place," said Sir Henry. "I
usurped the sovereignty over considerable districts; and war, with
"Whither away, Hans?"
concealed themselves to see how the Little Men would behave.
significant emphasis which we imagine thrown upon the _I_, admirably
of him if any one came in. So they gave him a mouthful of food outside.
leads to his death. In both the novel and the poem, Romeo kills Tybalt
To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core;
any more. And when he again heard the sport outside, he said, "I cannot
cupboard immediately disappeared. They were once more in the old
When she had eaten her bread, they gave her a broom and said, "Sweep
109. _The inconstant moon._ Cf. _M. for M._ iii. 1. 25:--
[Illustration]
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
spare not the King who has treated me so ill."
years under this roof, and here I find you deep in some dark plot
When morning came she arose, and the old Toad gave her three needles
was in the habit of smoking a cigar.  He never returned.
untouched, and One-Eye could not tell her mother why she would not eat
you, and that is that when I wrote the letter I never dreamed of
for she feared his evil name.  So it came to pass that one
The Old Woman laughed at this, and sprang about quite delighted on her
passages noted above in which it is called _mandragora_) and for sundry
anything. So! Now, if you will help me up. What do you propose to
bundle."
were working. They covered tables and benches with green cloth in an
Were in a mask?
the way, and the King reached his royal palace again, where the wedding
206. _Dian's wit._ Her way of thinking, her sentiments. S. has many
notes, _knives_, or daggers, were part of the accoutrements of a bride.
"Only be quiet," said the good-tempered tailor; "you shall keep your
parting injunctions and advice.
through all the halls until they came to a door in which were three
Say, Mr. Lieutenant, before I surrender,
popularity would soon suffer if I were to carry out your orders
_Romeo._                         This shall determine that.
Joringel looked for Jorinda. She was changed into a Nightingale, and
nothing of scythes. When the corn was ripe, they took cannon out to
"_To-day I brew, to-morrow I bake,
"Are you? Then your wish is easily granted, for there is your
closely into such a creature should he get sight of it, as many
Thou art up-rous'd with some distemperature;                      40
They called Ash-Maiden and said, "Comb our hair, brush our shoes, and
brothers. And if a mishap were to befall him, he knows not how to help
When the opening in the wall was large enough for them to slip through,
and fork, and a silver spoon; and the most delicious food was there
she was to do to get it, and what part she had to play, and finally
morning, the man took him to a well, and said, "Behold, the gold well
in Baker Street. Since the tragic upshot of our visit to
muslins, calicoes, drugs, China-ware, rice, sago, saltpetre, pepper,
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
51.  Westminster Abbey.
again!' They asked, too, 'Under what hedge have you been lying sleeping
also from his professional caution, which urged him never to take
shabby tavern, and pass by the good one." So he went into the cheerful
miserable hovel close by the sea, and every day he went out fishing.
Whose misadventur'd piteous overthrows
of considerable length--is in ii. 6. 6-37, where the first quarto reads
know it. Yet he had taken the obvious risk of discovery in
Nevertheless, people did not like to meet her if they could help it,
had happened the day before. The girl cooked a good meal, ate and drank
And the rank poison of the old will die.
In order that they might learn the truth, they resolved to send One-Eye
67.  The Royal Academy, Somerset House.
Why follow'd not, when she said Tybalt's dead,
accepted as the standard for line-numbers in works of reference
exception to be apparent rather than real.
through the fog upon that last night. Somewhere in the heart of
He answered, "Ah, Lord, I cannot."
links about his waist, it was but the work of a few seconds to secure
run away into the wild forest, and never come home again."
Benvolio as good, meant, perhaps, to show how the best minds, in a state
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
the windings of the suite.  These windows were of stained glass whose
when two hours were over, she had already scraped a small hole. Then
being cast out of standing moldes. Sticke long comfits upright in it,
at the Hall last week, did you not?"
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
it."
[_Exeunt Tybalt and his partisans._
pass with the geese: would he be so good as to nail up Falada's head on
which I am wearing. Last night they took one of my brown ones,
children, however, saw them coming from a distance.
So the lazy girl went home. She was covered with pitch, and the cock by
interesting study. In this play we find scenes entirely in verse (none
listening to what she said, and heard it. Then he came back again,
Her waggon-spokes made of long spinners' legs,
"As clearly as I see you."
repeated, instead of the admonition used in former days.
Buy then, lady fair, I pray,
their darkness, and at last the opening was so large that they could
Out of the sack!_"
England, celebrated in Notre Dame at Paris, May 11, 1625, "mass was
me to believe in such a thing. To do so would be to descend to
I bound in posies gay.
that a mind, suddenly and sharply awakened from previous inactivity, by
[Picture: Charing Cross]
When the soldier had received this good advice, he took heart, went to
minute or so inside, and then I heard the key turn once more and
help you to get the Golden Bird. When you come near to the castle
When opposed to _plain-song_, it meant counter-point as distinguished
ACT III
IV._ v. 3. 57:--
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
can he have which calls for such a trial! There, in that hut upon
(_c_) Words containing _l_ or _r_, preceded by another consonant, are
be carried off by a common disbanded soldier like that. So they took
admirable touch of nature, considering the master-passion which, at this
"I have already said that I owe a great deal to his kindness. If
In this, the second instance, we have used separate index numbers for
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate,
_2 Capulet._                     By 'r lady, thirty years.
This but begins the woe others must end.
When he came home with his wealth, his brothers were astonished, and
chestnut horse, came leaping toward him.
been conscious of, on his going to the entertainment at the house of
on their account.
_Nurse._ Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
or found it difficult to express his own feelings in words.
For never was a story of more woe                              309
Can you tell the position of the rooms? What are those latticed
_Servant._ Find them out whose names are written
"It seems a singularly useless thing to steal," said Sherlock
wife, and went to the sea.
Come, shall we go?
to the loft. Hang it on the big nail. Then pour water into it. If it
than any bird can fly."
"Really, Mr. Holmes, this exceeds anything which I could have
about him. The light beat upon him where he stood, but long
"Good evening, Mother."
Little Snow-White looked out at the window, and called, "Good-day, my
[Illustration]
daybreak, carry water, light fires, cook and wash. Besides this, the
_Romeo._ She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste;
within my grasp.
practised in town before going to the country."
KING THRUSHBEARD                                                 145
_Friar Laurence._ Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
_Juliet._ Hist! Romeo, hist!--O, for a falconer's voice,
that's a fact."
reached her, and now and then the servants threw her a few morsels.
"Ah," she replied, "if I can't get some of the rampion to eat, which is
Then the poor miller pulled a long face, saw that he was betrayed, and
would explain all differences between the earlier and later texts will
shake.
a measure, full of state and ancientry;" and for the play on the word,
_Thou hast drunk with him,_
enter without any compliment: 'What, come they in so blunt, without
edition, by another in verse, similarly headed "To the Reader," from
That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
at every seventh step that you take I will let fall a drop of red blood
etc.
pleased the huntsman. When his master perceived that, he gave him a
_Romeo._ In faith, I will.--Let me peruse this face.
Here, as in the balcony scene, Juliet is simply the "impatient child" to
there was a brief disconcert of the whole gay company; and, while the
than this it would be impossible to get him to move."
but in return for it, I will put out your right eye."
only a few paces farther. And their mother told them that it must have
an heir in Canada. In any case he would very soon learn it from
_Balthasar._ As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
119. _Rooteth._ Cf. _W.T._ i. 1. 25: "there rooted betwixt them such an
have a child, and he grows big, and has to draw beer here, the pickaxe
him to his father's castle. There he gave her beautiful clothes and
[Picture: The Custom House]
When he went into the room, the King's Daughter said, "Take your cap
to pieces and found fault with some of the details; but there was never
Silver and gold throw over me!_"
her food and drink, for she must eat and drink in secret."
She arose, and drove them through the meadow. The Bride looked out of
The Bridegroom was astonished, and thought, "She is like my Maid
when in England, computed their miles.  Proclamations were formerly
This is summed up by Mr. P.A. Daniel in his valuable paper "On the Times
his comrade outside, "The doctor knows all! we shall fare badly; he
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
_Capulet._ Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crow'd,
exile," etc.
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband.
parents; and, on the other, fondled and spoiled by a foolish old
sheets on them. And when she had done it the Old Man came and lay down
"Ah cosin dere, Tybalt, where so thy restles sprite now be,
script. At the head was written: "Baskerville Hall," and below in
walks a good deal."
likely that the man confuses what he saw while half asleep with what he
coachman: I shall be glad enough to get back again, if I am always to be
204. _On the back._ The dagger was commonly turned behind and worn at
"We are going too far," said Holmes. "We dare not take the chance
"That you shall have, and still more than you ask." Then the Wild Man
extending northward to Smithfield, when, after having burnt down thirteen
he passed me and reentered the house. I saw him rejoin his guest,
Each part, depriv'd of supple government,
and abhorrence, which takes possession of her mind. She assumes at once
"Capulet's Orchard," etc. As Malone remarks, Romeo and Juliet probably
observed, 'can be more quiet than his final determination, "Well,
dining-hall, he sprang upon the great table, flagons and
troubled over the disappearance of his little spaniel. It had
O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
I am glad to see this man, whose business it is to sweep up the mud and
so he cut off a little bit and put it into his mouth.
227. _These happy masks._ Steevens took this to refer to "the masks worn
lived for a long time, happy and contented.
160. _Take truce._ Make peace. Cf. _V. and A._ 82: "Till he take truce
moor."
it, but as it happened every time, they did observe it, and said,
it?"
4. 25, etc.
us--"
information."
All our whole city is much bound to him.
himself, "It is not right," and yet he went.
_Romeo._                         No matter; get thee gone
fine beard! Bad luck to you!" and then he swung the bag upon his back,
69. _Wash him from his grave_, etc. The hyperbole may remind us of the
I beg of my Maker my labours to bless;
Little Man reappeared. "It is all done," said he, "and the Witch is
for a tiny pinpoint of yellow light had suddenly transfixed the
The host's thoughts, however, let him have no rest. It occurred to him
"'_Bricklebrit!_'
When they had gone forth, he went into the stable, and got the horse.
Have at thee, coward!
completed the eighth, the ninth, and the tenth tier.  I had finished a
"If you are thirsty," said the waiting-maid, "get off your horse
I'll cry a match.
"But now we will go away," said Haensel, "that we may get out of the
17. _My will_, etc. My will is subordinate to her consent. The old man
on the road to Bremen.
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
119. _Like the lightning_, etc. Cf. _M.N.D._ i. 1. 145:--
he awoke. "Sit up," said she, "you cannot stay here. I have certainly
have extricated out of the tangled skein, the mystery of the sobs
taken it up and opened it, there lay the gold ring in the shell. Full
head of each of them. Then one of the men who had been hanged began to
Out of the sack!_"
terrible place. It was not the convict. This man was far from the
that I can hardly imagine how he could have hoped to see anyone.
Baskerville family."
an expression of interest he laid down his cigarette, and
involved in the fate which had overtaken the extremes of hate and
Knight was surprised at her great beauty, and said, "You, Two-Eyes, can
yellow flame and the gleam of the rock on each side of it.
"Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!" etc.
working hypothesis we have a fresh basis from which to start our
will be fourteen in about a fortnight, as the Nurse informs us in the
_Capulet._                       Tush, I will stir about,
woman that I loved?"
train before the King's Daughter.
Some Juliet, and some Paris, and all run
"But Dr. Mortimer was no doubt already stopping there?"
_So find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night._"
cries. Soon afterward the daughter entered. But the Old Woman scarcely
Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.
such grounds; nor, in the closing scene, does he blame either the lovers
of sight.
with one bound he was out of bed and swallowed up Red-Cap.
JORINDA AND JORINGEL                                             228
day he sent out two more huntsmen who were to search for him, but they
this task. But he could think of nothing, and there he sat sorrowfully
it. Away he went over stock and stone, until his hair whistled in the
and indifference were evidently my strongest cards.
were few and short, with no comments upon the information which I
out of the great box, which she was to take with her; they would be
lunacy. Herford says that "Adam" is made almost certain by _Much Ado_,
There was a table on which was a white cover, and seven little plates,
And gaine thee praise, when thou deserv'st a whip."
eleventh, and strike the Dragon with it. Then the Lion will be able
"No," said he, "I won't dance with a pussy cat. I have never done that
most elementary branches of knowledge to the special expert in
[Picture: The enraged Ox]
Or I shall faint.--A plague o' both your houses!
but the added pun on _fly_, which makes the allusion appear deliberate
look round and you will see the Griffin which is by the Red Sea. Swing
Have my old feet stumbled at graves!--Who's there?
however, fare much better with him than with the eldest. He did not
1. 81: "What, a play toward!"
called _Mercutio_, which was a courtlyke Gentleman, very well beloued of
39. _As in a vault_, etc. _As_ is here = to wit, namely. Cf. _Ham._ i.
character and ideals was very dear to me. However, the fates were
might have had a fatal effect upon his diseased heart. I fancy
town in which all had gone so well with him. He came to the pond where
the rooms to the walls, he made his way uninterruptedly, but with the
too, but he's not a convict as far as I can make out. I don't
She bought him a hat
Henry Baskerville himself. His face was flushed with anger, and
"Very good. I should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast
The Prince Took Her by the Hand and Led Her to Church            363
Montague's.
this sense. He might have given _T.N._ iii. 4. 71.
earth to utter shrieks which drove those mad who heard them. Cf. 2 _Hen.
entertained. Before long, he was so much in love with the young Witch
perplexities."
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
many that they could not be counted. At last she grew warm with the
"But he went out every evening."
"I guess it is ourselves and not the house that we have to
leading to the gallery, from which, on a clear day, beautiful views of
He saw very well that the cunning Nix had been aware of it, and had
And pity 'tis you liv'd at odds so long.
His former loue, for which of late he ready was to dye,
GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES
privates, goes to the governor's house for the keys, and on the porter's
face of a desperate woman.
lowest in the ground. How the goose did flap about with its broad
35.  The Blue-coat School, called Christ's Hospital.
her childhood. She must not have come to comprehend fully the low coarse
_1 Watch._ Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man,
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.                           230
"But, surely, you said that it was a new brown boot?"
flock, and how after a while she sat down and unplaited her hair, which
216. _Outrage._ Cf. 1 _Hen. VI._ iv. 1. 126:--
141. _Pestilent._ Often used in an opprobrious sense; as in _Lear_, i.
the old man, and also of the existence of the hound. Mrs. Lyons
around.  But the mummer had gone so far as to assume the type of the
That gallant spirit hath aspir'd the clouds,                     120
Then said the King to her, "I have thought of a way. Don't be afraid,
"Be that our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting--
hearth gave a scanty light. All at once, there was a noise outside,
issued from it, and asked her, "Whence come you, and whither go you?"
thought how to help himself out of his trouble. Now some ducks were
the matter of a report. Much of what I tell you is no doubt quite
and ran until he died of sheer horror and exhaustion. There was
He cryed out (with open mouth) against the starres aboue," etc.
_Romeo._ Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?        130
Afore it is cut up;"
origin, as the _bite my thumb_ is of Italian. It was the rallying-cry of
in your eyes. Please, please, be frank with me, Miss Stapleton,
Chapter 12.
sword:--
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
his long hair fell down from his shoulders into the water. He raised
89. _Shall give._ The ellipsis of the relative is not uncommon.
"Luchesi cannot tell Amontillado from Sherry."
The third, "Who has been taking some of my bread?"
from him, but he took the blow bravely when he learned the truth
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live;               70
With that he put him back again into the clear water, and the Flounder
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
_A. W._ i. 3. 176; and for the past tense in _Cor._ i. 3. 68. Elsewhere
As soon as she saw the seven people running on and on, one behind the
Emperor now?"
crime, though I confess that once when I was very young I
He had a weak point--this Fortunato--although in other regards he was a
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh!
is not advisable for you to go to Baskerville Hall."
child. I see him every day through my telescope upon the roof. He
families in Verona. Dante alludes to them in the _Purgatorio_ (vi. 107),
_ILLUSTRATED_
in Viola.
coming out before the fog is over the path."
seemed to be far away upon the horizon and sometimes it might
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
castle, where the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicings.
room, and said, "I know now what I said to the foot-bridge," and she
"It was my game to watch Stapleton. It was evident, however, that
Tho', as night's coming on, I had better go down.
_Romeo_: i. 1(65), 2(29), 4(34), 5(27); ii. 1(2), 2(86), 3(25), 4(54),
Then the door opened, and the King walked in, and there stood a maiden
remember right, was his name. Here are two moorland farmhouses,
scarlet cloth, laced with gold round the edges and seams, with several
distinguished by their having eaten different sweetmeats before they
by the noise, and had become lively, cried down from the beam:
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
have not the key."
Cupid precedes a troop of ladies with a speech." Collier compares
"It was hard to say whence it came."
sometimes = "anything amazing and appalling," and cites this passage as
all my thoughts into a new channel.
"Then, how can I assist you?"
from a long distance, sitting upon the steeples and turning round with
have thought, considering her age, and collected grass for her geese,
So she went up to it, and, with the bread shovel, took out all the
"Put into plain words, the matter is this," said he. "In your
new man. Mr. Stapleton, a mutual friend who was much concerned at
confound them! And I've closed the wood where the Fernworthy folk
122. _Stumbled at graves._ The idea that to stumble is a bad omen is
hunger."
a black horse. Again he caught the apple. But when he was riding off
The unreasonable fury of a beast.
"When do you desire to go?" he asked coldly.
and, as you shall use me hereafter, dry-beat the rest
will say for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
"A fixture also."
My dear Robinson,
20. _Vanity._ "Here used for 'trivial pursuit,' 'vain delight.' The word
misfortune," she said, "since you have sought out my lonely cottage."
stated or indicated are very young. Miranda, in _The Tempest_, is barely
24.  The Camel and Monkey.
the good beast opens its mouth and drops a whole sheetful of gold
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
To serve, obey, and honor you so long as lyfe shall last."
of sugar beeing finely beaten, adding two or three spoonefuls of
The Count told her that he had received it from the Old Woman in the
He looked down at her foot, and saw how the blood was running out of
construction of this unknown visitor."
Aside from this and other attempts to fix the date by external evidence
"There is something of Sir Henry about the jaw."
"I thought it was a lightning before death,
If this your tender Mother knew,
until my arrival. Sir Charles lay on his face, his arms out, his
from without pierced through the thick walls. What else could they do
be my final answer." His dark brows knitted and his face flushed
to the nettle," and she repeated the words which she had just heard.
How stands your disposition to be married?
as to what they should do and for how many days they should provide
bad, but, on the contrary, with this kind gentleman, who has carried
And diuers other thinges that in the bowels of earth do loorke,
"_Il a du feu en la teste_. Hee is very chollericke, furious, or
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
upon the great dome of St. Paul's, in all its glory, and makes it look as
light through an open door that he had entered one of the rooms.
man, but it was not. It was a Bear that stretched his broad, black head
"There is no alternative, I assure you."
Then the Flounder came swimming to him and said, "Well, what does she
_Balthasar._                     Romeo.                       129
the play.
Grethel took the bread under her apron, as Haensel had the stones in
And if only the little brother had had his human form, it would have
because they make such ugly holes.
my astonished features. He was thin and worn, but clear and
my frankness disarmed his anger, and he broke at last into a
back or do herself any unexpected injury.
Chapter 11.
59. _Fleer._ Sneer, mock; as in _Much Ado_, v. 1. 58, etc. For _scorn
With care I haue sought out, with payne I did then proue;
Brooke's poem, a few lines below the passage just quoted.
_Romeo._ With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls,
and the third in your bosom; the very butcher of a
54.  Westminster Hall
of them."
rapidity, putting the pretty clothes on, and singing:
"I do not believe in such nonsense."
203. _Mark-man._ The 3d and 4th folios have "marks-man." S. uses the
"I don't say now that he isn't a crazy man," said Sir Henry; "I
same time?--that hardly covers the bottom!"
But she's best married that dies married young.
appreciates the situation that it can have its true effect, and one
suppose that fits into its place."
horse. Come with me, and be my faithful servant for seven years, and
and cut off the head, and nailed it fast beneath the dark gateway.
To know our further pleasure in this case,
of timber which spanned the roof. To this post a figure was tied,
"Fall to, dear Friends," said the joiner.
settle the point forever? Obviously the first thing to do was to
the air above his head. He looked up, and saw seven coal-black Ravens
near me for some weeks, Watson. Tell me straight, now! Is there
station. Only just as he was leaving he turned round and he said:
off, in the direction of Grimpen, a single steady yellow light
folly, and made whispering vows, each to the other, that the next
bone again."
you had enough?"
baronet, who fled screaming down the yew alley. In that gloomy
it was gone. She called the boy, but no one answered. The King sent out
would fly."
"Have you seen him?"
believed that if I had an interview I could gain his help, so I
Ah! well it is, none knows the same--
Two myles from Veron towne, where he in prayers past forth his age;
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye                      220
"Still looking for your boot?"
So the man set to work and mowed it down so quietly and quickly that
Color gia tristi, e costor con sospetti."[2]
and fancy. Indeed, it is all here--the poesy and purity which those
head. I assure you that there would not be the least chance of
see _Ham._ iii. 4. 183, _L. L. L._ v. 2. 19, and _T.N._ i. 5. 69.
_wotting_.
without a barb, so as to be easily extracted (Nares).
We are dealing with a clever man, Watson. This matter cuts very
The two children had also not been able to sleep for hunger, and had
THE NIX OF THE MILL-POND                                         344
how shocked they were when they saw their dear little Snow-White lying
brothers, welcome hither!"
It grew, however, and became a handsome tree. Thrice a day Ash-Maiden
44. _Doubt._ Distrust; as in _J.C._ ii. 1. 132, iv. 2. 13, etc.
PAGE
away.
vigil, until he returned. Holmes had missed him in London. It
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
depart." The word is used in the same sense in Wiclif's Bible,
death, the other that the lurking man upon the moor was to be
fugitives already saw death before their eyes, when the woman in her
here is the hamlet of Grimpen, where our friend Dr. Mortimer has
33. _Fashion-mongers._ Cf. _Much Ado_, v. 1. 94: "fashion-monging boys."
When they had traveled for some time, they came to a great forest
much the wiser since we came down."
term of abuse. The _New Eng. Dict._ adds that it may have been due to
something in it."
Then One-Eye and Three-Eyes replied that the tree belonged to them, and
her, as loudly as he could? She did not listen to it, but ran home and
evening, and it was on that occasion, to explain the emotion
and noble things he has put into his women's hearts and mouths, but
strong one. Two regiments speedily overtook the six, and called out,
approached, Rapunzel knew him, and fell on his neck and wept. Two of
hand.
_Prince._ Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
upon her face.
_M.W._ ii. 2. 165: "Give us leave, drawer," etc.
your ears ere it be out.
edition of the play, which I did not see until this of mine was on the
said, "Hark you, Husband, this cottage is far too small for us, and the
hard and flushed with his exertions.
elevated principle, or even common honesty--are brought before us like a
it may point to agitation and hurry upon the part of the cutter.
more dearly," etc.
at the great trench in the opposite hill. That is his mark. Yes,
The youth thought, "That is a wonderful beast, he has strange whims.
"It is a lovely evening, my dear Watson," said a well-known
of the place."
of his own house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of
I looked over his shoulder at the yellow paper and the faded
She laughed and clapped her hands. Her eyes and teeth gleamed
security, forced out the gag, and calling for assistance, pursued the
but at last he said that he had indeed seen the unhappy
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
scarlet and gold. Its reflection was shot back in ruddy patches
Benvolio, the constant counseller of moderation, ought not to be
"He would be the heir to the estate because that is entailed. He
14.
night, when everything is quiet, the beautiful Princess goes to the
prurient vulgarity of the garrulous dame. She never shows any interest
offered to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
term for an impostor wandering about and asking alms under pretence of
when a loud growling was heard, and a black Bear came trotting toward
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
the position of affairs is made clear to her. And I have my own
to make her unhappy.
window," I suggested.
the cab in Regent Street? The beard might well have been the
clear that in spite of Holmes's ruse we had no proof that
back, he who makes the best masterpiece shall have the house."
yourself. You shall find a roof to shelter you, and the wages which I
has been heard of him. It is surely inconceivable that he could
with literal solemnity. But it was not a conventicle at old Capulet's.
Once on a time, when the little girl had gone out, the mother said:
The parents did not dare to keep the secret longer, and said that her
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
than words are now depending;" and _Cymb._ iv. 3. 23: "our jealousy Doth
the character and the situation. It was meant to be a brilliant
So she got into the carriage and drove away with the King, and when
already hanging on the gallows. What further commands has my lord?"
are Queen you will have no more need to go on foot."
time, but he appears by his own confession to have been the
117. _Needly will._ Needs must. _Needly_ was not coined by S., as some
"Well, then, here is your half-sovereign. There's another one
Dr. Mortimer were, however, in London, on their way to that long
"Ah," said Elsie, "have I not reason to weep? If I get Hans, and we
crow-keeper"); afterwards applied, as here, to what we call a
be King. A tree-frog which was sitting among the bushes, when he heard
misfortune which lay before her.
And in the taste confounds the appetite.
sacksful of millet-seed on the grass.
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
_Juliet._ Go, ask his name.--If he be married,
_Abram._ Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
"Did you correspond with him?"
Her servants unpacked splendid garments, and washed him and dressed
at his dark and expressive face I felt more than ever how true a
"_Turn and peep, turn and peep,
The second said, "Step upon him and kill him."
the good animal will drop gold pieces for you."
"Why, no, Mr. Holmes. I think not."
the stable.
picture of an old family home? To think that this should be the
whatever they could lay hold of with their teeth.
anything and never once stirred.
And when the brothers had said this, the quarter of an hour was over,
so pity, pity," the first _fire_ is a dissyllable.
has been mentioned as the probable Liberal candidate for
which I might have read so much has been long ere this smudged by
"I wonder he dares," said Sir Henry.
the mines in Northumberland.  These vessels are too large to come close
This is she--
the bright sun. When he had stood looking at her thus for a short time,
Such a foot is called an _iambus_ (plural, _iambuses_, or the Latin
truth, or the slightest hesitation in her self-abandonment; for she
duel.
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.
fashion. Holmes stopped him at the head of the stair.
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
room. "Just come in," cried the voice.
with some of the other factors in the situation.
"He'll break into no house, sir. I give you my solemn word upon
AEneas _hedge-brat_, _cullion_, and _tar-breech_ in the course of one
looked at them my soul shared none of the peace of Nature but
feathers fly up.
struggle with itself for its decisions in _toto_" (Coleridge).
moment he understood that I had taken over the case in London,
'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
like Romeo, was indisposed for society, and sought to be most where most
"Good-morning, Holmes," said the baronet. "You look like a
Just before dinner two telegrams were handed in. The first ran:
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
Which is as thin of substance as the air,
To bear a poison, I would temper it,
"That is curious, for I did when I was half asleep fancy that I
be dead. They lifted her up, and, as they saw that she was laced too
8. _Something._ The accent is on the last syllable, as Walker notes; and
"_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, I pray,
Where thy forefathers long agoe a costly tombe preparde,
pebble-stones one by one out of his pocket onto the road.
With that they got up, opened wardrobes, presses, cupboards, and
When Two-Eyes saw that, full of sorrow, she went outside, and seated
there?"
building is situated in Lower Thames-street, fronting the river,
cards we have in our hands and play them with decision. Could you
that of the last of the gay.  And the flames of the tripods expired.
have had the advantage of meeting Dr. Mortimer and Sir Henry
curious lisp in her utterance. "But for God's sake do what I ask
[Picture: The Postman and Letter-Carrier]
not allow it. "Just look," said she mockingly, "the young gentleman
_Mercutio._ Thou hast most kindly hit it.
feverishly the heart of life.  And the revel went whirlingly on, until
45. _Past cure_, etc. Cf. _L. L. L._ v. 2. 28: "past cure is still past
Book of the Earls of Northumberland_, compiled at the beginning of the
company a buzz, or murmur, expressive of disapprobation and
Snow-White was married to him, and Rose-Red to his brother. They
He has the form of a man, but talks and acts like a weak girl, while the
"I cannot understand, Barrymore, how you came to conceal this
had bitten off, came out of her throat. And before long she opened her
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man,--
otherwise on the second. This often occurs with dis-syllabic adjectives
gave it to the Knight.
way to stop his confidences.
expert should be able to distinguish from each other, and cases
cane and was gone.
47. _Consort'st with._ Keepest company with. Cf. _V. and A._ 1041,
506: "I would your grace would take me with you; whom means your grace?"
[_Music plays, and they dance._
_Paris._ Of honourable reckoning are you both,
I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
the rushes, and, without saying a word more, he dragged it away and
Thy lips are warm.
house. But when they went inside that, it was a great castle, and the
date?"
But Romeo may not. More validity,
every hut upon the moor until I lighted upon the right one. If
to Juliet:--
drop of red blood fell, and when she raised her eyes the Dove had
we lay aside our swan's skins and have our human form. After that, we
"Out by the Cleft Tor, I think."
in a rude grate. Beside it lay some cooking utensils and a bucket
She said, "Yes, I should very much like to see my father again," and
171. _Envious._ Malicious; as often.
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
S._ iv. 1. 199:--
o' the collar.
_Juliet._ I'll look to like, if looking liking move;
chamber, put off the magnificent clothes and the jewels, dressed
she consented, but the page was to give the Prince a sleeping-draught.
Then Two-Eyes, quite cheered, came from beneath the barrel, and the
and A._ 482 ("Her two blue windows faintly she upheaveth") the eyelids,
was blind and the other lame. They asked Hans where his horse was.
beautiful maiden and declared heir to the King.
scent. This was certainly where the man lived. Some blankets
ASH-MAIDEN                                                        73
But, like a misbehav'd and sullen wench,
suspicions from their minds. Already I seemed to see our nets
"We've had one experience, as Watson has no doubt told you. We
_Enter_ ROMEO
"Good day, Hans. What good thing do you bring?"
from the house or else to enter it by the moor-gate?"
was celebrated.
"Perfectly."
Bird-Found and Lina loved each other so dearly, that when they did not
deliver them up again carefully.
breath that it is useless to investigate Sir Charles's death, and
pulled quite gently and carefully at the sack to see if he could
death. You have withheld what the connection is between these
affairs of the navy.  The telegraph receives information, and gives
reminiscences, _2 Hen. IV._ ii. 1. 93 fol.: "Thou didst swear to me,"
where were they to go? The enemy had ravaged the whole kingdom, driven
_thrown off its poise_, the horror rises to _frenzy_,--her imagination
the crest I saw the ragged uncouth figure outlined for an instant
head."
the barrel, so that she had no need to stoop, and did not hurt her
[_Exeunt Lady Capulet and Nurse._
big town where there is no lack of work."
I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
there is a complete understanding between them. Now, this puts a
_Counterfeit_ is used for the sake of the coming play on _slip_, which
"is peculiarly awkward, as Juliet has been addressing the vial just
The huntsman asked, "Why do you stand there so sorrowfully?"
12. _Lay._ Wager. Cf. _L. L. L._ i. 1. 310, _T. and C._ iii. 1. 95, etc.
_Friar Laurence._ There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
in persecuting the Baskerville family? I thought of the strange
For it excels your first; or if it did not,
be the most drunken, rode forward down the goyal. Now, it
Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
The next day, when she had seated herself at table with the King
to fly, but the youth pursued, and never stopped, until there was not a
It happened that soon afterward the mother sent the two children to the
should think that there are few men who know it better than I
some clandestine appointment. So I reasoned with myself in the
familiarly, while his bells jingled.
ten o'clock. Our success and even his life may depend upon his
the text of the play, it is certain that it "was not printed from the
the house, and thought to himself, "How the old woman is snoring! I
hand.
"There are many sheep-dogs on the moor?"
[_Exeunt Juliet and Nurse._
like it, Dr. Watson--I tell you straight, sir, that I don't like
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
23. _Me._ For the "ethical dative," cf. _J.C._ i. 2. 270: "He plucked me
64. _In spite._ In malice; or, as Schmidt explains it, "only to defy and
honest Christian woman and you will see that if there is blame in
Wherein (if any of that kindred hap to dye)
leave your own age behind you, and if you were to see a
"A sweet chubby fellow,
different opinion of the lovers and finds a very different lesson in
The Queen went home quite delighted, and thought she had got rid of all
boots. He has been a fixture therefore all day. He is not a man
take. I have found them out."
and I came down secretly when I was supposed to be in London. My
"I hourly learn
blotting out what has passed. The barrister who has his case at
but it was useless to press the trigger. The giant hound was
Holle, when she told her to do anything, for she was thinking of all
heard something of the sort. I waited quite a time, but there was
stride of the horses and every turn of the wheels was taking us
in the end to have the estate, and he was ready to use any tool
bugle-horn, and the _ho! ho!_ of the huntsmen, he had no peace, but
long-standing organic disease, and the coroner's jury
carry under their arm.  A pewter badge on their breast, and a clergyman's
He is in the stable outside, and is to be made fat. When he is fat, I
name. There were several Mortimers, but only one who could be our
"Thank God! Thank God! Oh, this villain! See how he has treated
it suits you, we will retire early tonight, and perhaps things
pulleth it out of the earth."
into the world like mad; and to this hour no one knows where she has
in places more remote from the metropolis. In Dutch art, as Fairholt
may do what hands do, that is, that they may kiss.
_Romeo._ I can tell you; but young Romeo will be
_Juliet._ Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
and _Lear_, iii. 4. 20: "Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave
Stapleton laughed. "That is the great Grimpen Mire," said he. "A
Soon again I heard a tapping something louder than before.
she said is true, for I am far too hungry," and she said:
shaved off the hare's whiskers whilst he was running at the top of his
blood to ice in my veins.
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
heard, we cannot even swear to the existence of the latter, since
"Is it ready?"
has not black feet like you. You are the Wolf!"
What are you doing here,
world is wide. Why should he wish to live at the place of
as blood, and as black as the wood of the window-frame."
well adapted to such a scene" (Verplanck).
29. _Turn the tables up._ The tables in that day were flat leaves hinged
"No."
"Prove it to me! Prove it to me! And if you can do so--!"
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
spirited chestnut horse."
recess of the window. There was such a ring of conviction in his
plague o' both your houses!--Zounds, a dog, a rat,
Let us hope they will all receive some benefit from their morning
"_Three-Eyes, are you waking?
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
carriage window.
_Cymb._ v. 3. 15, etc.
she was led out again, and had to give up the golden dress. And as that
and show me the cottage in the wood;" and when he was at the door,
generous donations to local and county charities have been
And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming
brilliancy of the characterization. He did not have to kill off
To lay one in, another out to have.
sitting near their bed. He got up and looked quite kindly at them, but
into a ditch, but sprained her legs, and waddled away to a neighboring
"burning this Protestant city;" but Pope, the poet, was of a different
v. 1. 126: "But you, my brace of lords," etc. As a parallel to the
six shirts were ready, only the left sleeve of the sixth was wanting.
reserve and artless frankness, the avowal of so fervent, yet so modest a
"Eh, my word!" said the host, "ducats are quickly coined there! A purse
There was once a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie.
Devonshire. A devil with merely local powers like a parish vestry
bitterness. "I think that I have deserved better at your hands,
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
You will not be long _on_, my good fellow, but _in_.
_Lady Capulet._ Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
because the male bird sings near where the female is sitting. "The
was astounded, and did not know what to say. He took the shoes in
Presently a dream took possession of her. She was anxiously climbing
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
"Oh," answered the son, "she has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'll
was heard, no stone fell out of the wall, and it seemed to Maid Maleen
the King and said, "Lord King, it has come to the tailor's ears that
89. _Farewell compliment!_ Away with formality! The early eds. have
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
"Barrymore has been coaching me in them, and I think I can say my
let his golden hair be seen, he kept his little hat on. Such a thing
dress herself in my clothes, and to go to church instead of me."
"Good! My friend and I are also ready for emergencies."
up, and not a single grain be wanting."
"Because that is my special hobby. The differences are obvious.
left which puzzled the authorities, alarmed the countryside, and
When he had walked some distance, he found a Hound lying on the road,
close at hand. He was horror-stricken and filled with deadly fear.
was for a man. Cf. the proverb, "Every Jack must have his Jill;" alluded
precipitancies; spring with its odours, its flowers, and its transiency.
the devilish cunning of it, for really it would be almost
verse:
must just see if she wants anything."
Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
_Nurse._ O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
51. _Much upon these years._ Nearly at the same age. Cf. _M. for M._ iv.
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
of the recess.  It was _not_ the cry of a drunken man. There was then a
"It is Selden, the man who escaped from Princetown."
Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.
Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
but the Witch was cast into the fire and miserably burnt.
"Good-bye, Grethel."
The shoe it is too small for her,
of _light_, see on i. 1. 134 above. Cf. ii. 2. 105 below.
52.  The Tombs.
mother stood by. But she could not get her big toe into it, for the
a bed in which I can lie down, and sleep?" The animals replied:
goose-girl.
on foot with him. When they came to a large forest she asked, "To whom
few years later, we may be certain that the gardener and his servants
Open it when you are in sorest need."
his right arm over the broad hat and round the long ringlets.
"They did not succeed
than all other girls. She and a handsome youth named Joringel had
"We must close in on him rapidly, for he is said to be a
With, "_Flowers_, _a growing_, _a blowing_!"
by each of us falling asleep in our chairs. Fortunately we were
"One cannot always have the success for which one hopes. An
The ring at the bell proved to be something even more
here. Cf. v. 1. 70 below.
You tallow-face!
'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night;
_Re-enter_ TYBALT
passage. The following is from the report in the London _Academy_:--
3) have been too gross to comprehend. It is to Romeo's honour that he
When the Bride saw that, she wanted to have it, but the maiden gave it
So he was forced to go. As the man went, however, he was troubled in
_Nurse._                         Faith, here 'tis. Romeo
an _Epitaph_ by George Turbervile (printed in a volume of his poems,
anything more clearly. As far as I could judge, the figure was
butterflies are, if you have the wit to reach them."
is nothing supernatural about this, at any rate?"
her, and sometimes I suspect Barrymore of being a domestic
have sprained my foot, and cannot walk through the streets. You shall
178. _A wanton's bird._ Here _wanton_ means simply a playful girl. It is
generally read "concert." Milton has _consort_ in the same sense in the
experiences any shock at Romeo's forgetting his Rosaline, who had been a
rushes?
But he said, "You have dipped your finger into the water. This time it
[_Exeunt._
its hind legs for joy, leapt over hedges and ditches, and galloped away
passed, but no one came to the poor children.
"Are you the Knight who came every day to the festival, always in
to help him. Tell me, frankly, what it is that you don't like."
[Footnote 1: A translation of _La Giulietta_, with an historical and
A pleasant slumber slide, and quite dispred at length
Cf. Brooke's poem:--
explain it). Johnson gives it correctly: "The _hay_ is the word _hai_,
since this fellow escaped." Well, perhaps his explanation may be
17. _Learn'd me._ Taught myself, learned; not elsewhere used reflexively
Scarcely, however, had he dipped them in than the Nix ascended,
"No."
That to pin'd hearts hope might for aye arise."
We have braved the howling storm,
names in England is being besmirched by a blackmailer, and only I
"_Enter the ghost in his night gowne_;" that is, his dressing-gown. See
tired with their long walk, they soon went to sleep.
industriously and unweariedly, and when the time came for him to go on
14.  A Spanish shield with a pistol fixed in it.
King.
thought over what was to be done.
about in the hedges, and when he is quite safe, he sometimes cries, "I
one! Dyce explains it: "God forbid that any accident should keep her
"Ah," said the woman, "it is surely hard to have to live always in
loose life, checks herself--_God forbid_ her darling should prove such a
The girls, who by this time were used to his thanklessness, went on
in a hearse with six horses, to his last home.  Westminster Abbey is a
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
palace was shot down to the ground.
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,                             30
peeped through we found him crouching at the window, candle in
to get work everywhere. But wherever they knocked they were turned
his wife had a little boy. The miller stood as if struck by lightning.
satisfied myself that the place had indeed been used as a
"No, no."
ready, the strong one who could tear up trees had to take it on his
us this helping hand?"
forming ice-creams in summer.
_answer_.
Abate thy valour in the acting it.                               120
Whom erst he neuer sawe, of all she pleasde him most:
Bird-Found, "If you will never leave me, I will never leave you."
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
were sleeping, and not one of them moved.
treasures which I possess, shall be yours."
here."
She went and opened the door, and the Frog hopped in and followed her,
he that he was hardly articulate, and when he did speak it was in
him. You can't tell on him without getting my wife and me into
after them as they depart.  And now again the music swells, and the
quivered at the vagueness and the terror of that interview which
in the fence of the garden, where nothing but good herbs grew. And the
At length, the mother grew impatient, and climbed up herself, but could
the time that you have been talking. It would be a poor expert
reverently;" _Id._ ii. 1. 102: "held thee dearly," etc.
Ravens!"
considerable finesse. An ordinary schemer would have been content
*       *       *       *       *
academy consists of forty academicians, twenty associates, and six
Hall consisted of a married couple named Barrymore, the
That scarsely can his wofull brest keepe in the liuely breath."
"You do Sir Charles an injustice. He _did_ burn the letter. But
_And pretty brindled Cow,_
93. _I stand on sudden haste._ I must be in haste. Cf. the impersonal
when I think of them, I feel quite sad, but who can get them? Only the
And guide the wooer to me, I pray._"
92. _Who often drown'd_, etc. Alluding to the old notion that if a witch
overtaken by the shot of the hunter.
as if dead to the ground. The Count was seized by the King's servants,
saucy merchant was this, that was so full of his
something of the brother and sister. They dine here tonight, and
last night and again today?"
darkness, and knew not when day or night began. The King's Son often
tree, however, remains with us," thought they, "and even if we can
"It's just as I imagined it," said Sir Henry. "Is it not the very
he has an excellent telescope, with which he lies upon the roof
themselves to unhonest desire, neglecting the authority and advice of
Smithfield, and the feeders of the best kinds have been rewarded with
Who, nothing hurt withal, hiss'd him in scorn.
along patiently behind the Old Woman. She seemed to grow more and more
Now, said he, if these letters were weigh'd by their sense,
moved upon its dreary face.
19. _Dear._ Cf. v. 3. 32 below: "dear employment."
him, and gave him the coffin.
another to stand out here in the darkness of the moor and to hear
it not I?"
terrible noise.
And when they got home, Ash-Maiden lay in her dirty clothes among the
or Durations of the Actions of Shakspere's Plays" (_Trans. of New Shaks.
The sons, therefore, did this, in turn.
L._ 1.
122. _When griping grief_, etc. From a poem by Richard Edwards, in the
possible horrors of the tomb, she _sees_, or believes she sees, the
with Falstaff after Prince Hal has become King. Mercutio must not come
sleeping-draught. So the Bridegroom and the scullery-maid went to sleep
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
greater, answered again, "Mew! Mew!"
him down again.
at once followed them in the hopes of marking down their
and shone like the sun.
and Barnaby Rich's _Farewell_, 1583: "The day to his seeming passed away
"I understand that the yew hedge is penetrated at one point by a
charge."
of the evil that they had done in their youth to their sister.
that Sir Charles's nervous system was strained to the breaking
Cf. i. 1. 168 fol. above.
34. _In._ Into. See on v. 1. 36 above.
sixteen years old, which is six feet in height.
"Let us go, nevertheless.  The cold is merely nothing. Amontillado! You
"Oh, you return tomorrow?"
Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December,
The King, however, said that he would grant him his life on one
an old gray-haired man. No one was allowed to be with me but my three
not be thought a very exquisite amusement; and yet I have seen much
Juliet's character;" but, as Ulrici remarks, "they seem necessary in
10. _Vanish'd._ A singular expression, which Massinger has imitated in
hound of hell as God forbid should ever be at my heels.'
Great store of cunning Epitaphes, in honor of theyr death.
7. _Be not her maid._ Be not a votary to the moon, or Diana (Johnson).
could have touched with such delicacy, such infinite charm of mingled
2. 1 below.
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
66. _His._ Its. _Heaven_ is not personified here.
my mistress wants to drown me, so I have run away. But now good advice
Will I set up my everlasting rest,                             110
my window. It opened upon the grassy space which lay in front of
will take no other for my husband."
II
a sharp wind blew over it that it curdled, and the man was afraid. Then
soldier was alone again, he lighted his pipe and summoned the Little
police."
as the wind, on a wild tom-cat, nor was it long after that before the
up again with the crown resting on her wings. The twelve young ones
I will comb you properly for once."
stranger. Rank reeds and lush, slimy water-plants sent an odour
care that nothing falls into it, or it will be polluted. I will come
71.  Carleton House,
_Enter_ MONTAGUE _and others_
_examine_? Benvolio says, "Examine other beauties;" Romeo replies, in
warm with the Medoc.  We had passed through walls of piled bones, with
coals, he held a lucifer-match to them to light it. But the Cat did not
Then the wind blew, and blew his little hat off his head and far away,
some strong emotion, "I am telling that which I have not confided
Oxford Street.
the chamber. She seated herself on the bed and said, "I have followed
was once again walking in the wood, when the Fox met him and said, "You
Then said Lina, "I will tell you. Last night, old Sanna carried so many
for five or ten minutes."
could not finish it by the evening.
"And that is for the third miller's boy," said she.
but the Nurse goe foorth, casting Rosemary on her and shutting the
brother's table had been exchanged. He led his Ass by the bridle, and
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
"Wife," said the man, and looked attentively at her, "are you now Pope?"
face became copper-red with rage. He was going on with his bad words,
since his flight, during which he has not been seen and nothing
but we had no means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing
I married them; and their stolen marriage-day
be taken care of in one of those warehouses, till it is sold for public
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
her place, the miller's daughter, who was very beautiful. They took her
always came on the tree. And if Ash-Maiden expressed a wish, the bird
to them, "Go in, and enjoy yourselves."
over three piercing swords and a great lake. If she did all this, she
You see he can't spring through the grating of iron;
She glanced at them, and then looked up at us with the set, rigid
the scene, and was supposed to be concealed from the others, not coming
Sits Charles the First at Charing Cross.
Joseph Rickerby, Printer, Sherbourn Lane.
"Now having seene all this, then shall you see hard by
tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight to see that huge
"Well, then, supposing that 'C.C.H.' does stand for 'Charing
air of Dartmoor. Never been there? Ah, well, I don't suppose you
The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
For my wife, Dame Ilsabil,
The first thing he met was a brown foal running about the fields at
sweet as honey.
partly from copies of portions of the original play, partly from
[Picture: The Tombs]
But the mother said, "All this will not help you. You go not with us,
Even with the utterly lost, to whom life and death are equally jests,
of the difference between English and Continental manners." But that
8.  A Wharf
cannot keep my eyes open. I will sleep a little. If only a gust of wind
_Juliet._ That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
_Romeo._ One, gentlewoman, that God hath made
"It will follow me in three days' time."
"Then I will tell you something," said the first; "the dew which this
_Juliet._ Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day.
and the marks of his teeth are very plainly visible. The dog's
were the two towers of Baskerville Hall, and there a distant blur
stay dinner.' So S. read the course of the world--and it is not much
"And now tell me the result of your visit to Mrs. Laura Lyons--it
give my word that I will go back to it, set it free, and marry it."
Hill and vale do not come together, but the children of men do, good
went home.
innocence. He was dismissed with no better answer.
sister, who was not allowed to show herself, for she had only two eyes
them that most new-born kittens were drowned in the ponds.
"Go to her," said the Flounder; "she is Emperor already."
_Ham._ iii. 2. 179: "What my love is, proof hath made you know," etc.
"Ere long the townishe dames together will resort:
The ground on which the hall stands is so near to the water, that on
And where the worser is predominant,
I leave you the little house, which will protect you from wind and
The man upstairs waited a short time, but as his wife did not come back
critics have nevertheless failed to understand it. They have assumed
cup. Then she said, "Ah, Heaven!" and the three drops of blood answered:
generalization is done to the poet's hand. Here you have the garrulity
quite glad and happy.
time." When the butler had gone I walked over to the black
"Time of this Tragedy, six consecutive days, commencing on the morning
will postpone all further thought upon this business until we
impostor, and that they must take her out into the courtyard and strike
without claiming her love. This I promised, and so the matter
1. 16 and _W.T._ iv. 4. 330.
the undertaking a success. Fraser, the tutor, died however, and
_Lady Capulet._ Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
accept the situation without protest is very amazing. However,
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
I seemed to discern some signs of emotion upon the butler's white
_Juliet._ O, think'st thou we shall ever meet again?              50
Out of the sack!_'
_Servant._ My master's.
its position; I plastered it up.  Against the new masonry I re-erected
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
A short walk brought us to it, a bleak moorland house, once the
_Benvolio._                      Why dost thou stay?
thought, had he passed through the lustre which is shed at present by the
herself from one side to the other the whole night through, thinking
it round the five others, lifted the bundle on his back and carried it
boasted that he will get the gold crown back again, which was lost in
dark fears and vague surmises which clouded our lives so long and
90. _Grave beseeming_. Grave and becoming. Cf. _Ham._ iv. 7. 79:--
I have quoted above (note on ii. 2. 142) what Brooke makes Juliet say to
tree on which the maiden was sitting.
"_All flourishing_, _growing_, _and blowing_!"
boiling, and splashed upon the shore. In the distance he saw ships
because he is always heard a few days before him, and a very small bird
Doing more murthers in this loathsome world
for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again. And
came to the outskirts, he called "Iron John" three times so loudly that
Besides, my house is not so very far from here. It stands there on the
Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore--
"No, sir; I tell you he was in the loft."
With blood remov'd but little from her own?
food and stable room, and manage them as I tell you? Then I will pay
person; but you can understand that, with my extensive consulting
"But how about the case?" asked the baronet. "Have you made
_Enter_ CAPULET
high, the woman said, "Now, Children, lay yourselves down by the fire
after the fire of London, which took place at midnight, 2d September,
even and direct with me," etc. Sometimes the word is = perplexing,
"And so am I."
and coffers filled themselves of their own accord, and as if money
moor. You cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains.
wild geese. Two horses were started together; and if one got the lead
man who walked softly down the passage with a candle held in his
lingered, gossip-like, to hear what Capulet had to say. A _cot-quean_ is
Was Tybalt's doomsday, whose untimely death
clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid, for he saw the Witch
marriage from the first (i. 3), he takes a different tone (iii. 4.
by the voyages of Drake and other explorers to America about the time
Till I scarcely more than muttered: "Other friends have flown before--
ones not usually included in children's volumes.
The girls came just in time. They held him fast and tried to free his
under the waves, which closed over him.
only this one letter, so I took the more notice of it. It was
placid face and steadfast eyes of my companion showed that no
of a mile off, and a lady was by his side who could only be Miss
into the darkness of the night. Vaguely I could discern the black
content with cultivating the lady's friendship during that time
_Prince._ Search, seek, and know how this foul murther comes.
said the man. "Leave off crying. I see very well that you cannot do
I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'"
_scarecrow_. The latter was often a stuffed figure with a bow in his
"And what marks did you see by the wicket-gate?"
This line, it will be seen, consists of ten syllables, with the even
mine uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair               70
The tailor's courage came back to him. He jumped up in one bound; and
_Nurse._                         What?
instantly went to the royal apartment, and asked the Bride about the
ostentation, as is most generally the case, is covered with a thin veil
yard-measure.
of the entrance to the court, which is of ample size, surrounded by
Cover the table with something to eat!_'
was sometimes used as a term of endearment or pity. Cf. _2 Hen. IV._ ii.
into the room, seated herself by the stove, and began to eat her
in a row of pomegranate-trees that skirt the road from Smyrna to
is scratching at my front door, and proceed to Waterloo to meet
When she had done this, he ordered her to come to his chair. Then he
While that quaint old-fashioned translation, illustrated with woodcuts
He conducted them to a room which had a floor of iron, and the doors
exchanged him for the gardener's boy.
There was once a young huntsman, who went into the forest to lie in
Then the false Bride said, "She deserves no better fate than to be put
There is only one provision which I must make. You certainly must
_Rich. III._ iii. 2. 77, etc. For _alone_ the 1st and 2d quartos have
being discreet and of good repute, would ever avoid him,
scarcely had he swallowed a couple of mouthfuls, when wonderful! he
Everything happened just as the Fox had said. The King's Son came to
food."
held out a stick to him, and drew him on behind him.
"He heard him."
tomb" of Romeo and Juliet, with "great store of cunning epitaphs in
SHAKESPEARE'S
THE SINGING, SOARING LARK                                        249
Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
treason) for furtherance of their purpose, abusing the honourable name
notorious criminals in the country?
60. _Buried._ A trisyllable here; as in v. 3. 176 below.
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
proud and haughty withal that no suitor was good enough for her. She
in its niches. From over a distant rise there floated a grey
_Romeo._ Meaning, to curtsy.
hurricane over the enemy, and beat down all who opposed him. They began
London, the man in the cab, and the letter which warned Sir Henry
our conjectures were set at rest by a visit from Stapleton
the stream, and dividing the course of the water; it is thus driven into
play.
241. _Marriage._ A trisyllable. See on iv. 1. 11 above, and cf. 265
_Jul._ Romeo.
the Golden Comb                                                  348
Enticed the young truant away.
sympathy with the mother's affections gives her privileges and rank in
the sun, and Two-Eyes began the same song as before, and sang:
She removed a skin which covered her face, then bent down to the well,
atmosphere and colour. The season, though Coleridge refers to it
well-trained servant. He was a remarkable-looking man, tall,
turn all through the night.
Bring out your dust, the dustman cries,
The Knight, however, desired to see her, and cried, "Two-Eyes, come
anything that would prevent me from making a good husband to a
sale. But suddenly there came a drunken soldier galloping along, and
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
"'_Cudgel!
and moon to rise?"
21. _Nor that is not._ Double negatives are common in S.
found in a tree, he called Bird-Found, because a bird had carried it
her own native softness and elegance, but are at once the cause and the
(prologue). The numbers of the lines in the references (except for the
pass? It suits me very well."
Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
And show us to be watchers;" and _Id._ v. 1. 5: "I have seen her rise
_Juliet._ Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
and it will not leave off until you say:
"_Who drinks of me, a Tiger be!
there are matters of which no jest can be made.  The whole company,
her lover in the balcony scene. In their first interview, she says:--
and let him have rest.
could you not?"
"_Duks,_" answered the animals, and that must have meant, "We are
"Yes, I am awake," answered the second.
silk button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
_Nurse._                      Your mother.
49.  Temple Bar.
how he could take such a boy as that into his service; and said that he
"And forth he goth, no longer wold he tary,
36. _By the rood._ That is, by the cross; as in _Ham._ iii. 4. 14,
In there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore.
When he came to the hollow tree, he sat down and hung his head. The
"Alas!" answered the girl, "I have to spin straw into gold, and I do
feather for herself, but she had scarcely touched her sister than she
and you won't know it again, with a thousand candle-power Swan
the people opened their mouths with astonishment. They agreed to give
[Picture: The Royal Exchange]
[Illustration]
shock would kill him. So much he had learned from Dr. Mortimer.
sound," etc.
"You shall have that because you are so industrious," said Mother
beautiful woman like his sister to himself for her whole life. If
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
nothing but cats who were her servants. They leapt nimbly upstairs and
But more than that we were never destined to know, though there
would be likely to take his station? Your suggestion, sir, is a
however, from certain passages in writers of the time that the word was
5. _Bak'd meats._ Pastry. S. uses the term only here and in _Ham._ i. 2.
_ropery_.
grown up out of the entrails of the goat, for it was standing on the
Sonn. to the _Sonnets_.
In front of the central portico, I see, there is one of the mail-coaches
Full many a year I've remember'd him well,
Her waggoner a small grey-coated gnat,
hut a flat stone served the purpose of a table, and upon this
the business" (so in several other passages); and other words mentioned
Concerning Arthur Brooke                                 275
Steevens thinks that this passage may have been suggested to S. by the
ii. 3. 229.
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
"_Shuttle, my Shuttle, weave well this day,
definitely settled--but the very definitiveness with which it was
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end.--
cut off one of her little fingers, put it in the door, and succeeded in
Poor flounder, he heaves up his fin with a sigh,
The Cock agreed to this plan, and all four went on together.
brass, whatsoever was wanted. And behind the cottage, there was a small
Some consequence, yet hanging in the stars,
and said, "White as snow, red as blood, black as ebony-wood! This time
172. _Here's much_, etc. Romeo means that the fray has much to do with
"Whither away, Hans?"
of October, 1813, being the 53d anniversary of king George the Third's
before she came to a house the windows of which were all lighted up.
and as we ourselves might have done, when he saw such a creature
thrust or stab with a rapier. It is the same as the "stoccado" of _M.W._
and shame and a dreadful questioning--stared back at us. In a
"Is that convenient to you, Watson?"
not to do."
[_Exit Servant._
"_Chorus_": end of act i. (14). Whole no. 14.
long till nightfall, but take care that no one does him any harm."
SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED
from mud or snow.  They do not forget to hold their hats to those who
Then he said to the Dwarfs, "Let me have the coffin. I will give you
a forest, and had neither stairs nor door. But quite at the top was
warning clipped out of the leading article of the _Times_. Was
82. _Crush a cup_, etc. A common expression in the old plays. We still
blow.
[Illustration: "YES," SAID SHE "NOW I AM EMPEROR"]
a terrible frost comes on, and all the birds in the air are frozen, and
will fall on his head and kill him."
Third; and the founding of an asylum for invalid soldiers at Chelsea, was
from his edition of the dramatist. Fortunately, the majority of the
"My word, it does not seem a very cheerful place," said the
able to act with an initiative in his own will, and with manly
should not have known that he was upon the moor.
was supposed, and the notion was probably encouraged for the sake of
upon the moor.
matters when our nerves were tense with emotion and anticipation.
saw very well that he could not escape death. He sat for a while
If there was one report there might be others, so I looked round
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet.
if she saw gold shining through it, but she was not sure about it. The
evidently Franciscans. "In his kindness, his learning, and his
believed that she might now go with them to the feast.
jarre, serving in stead of Commentaryes not only for these, but others
stripped it off them. And it was done so quickly, that before any one
finished by his successor.  Beneath this were two gates, one called
weight from my mind.
the wall. And after much peering here and there, saw a pickaxe exactly
the two children, saying, "Get up, you sluggards! we are going into the
"Nail-scissors," said Holmes. "You can see that it was a very
moaning of the autumn wind and the rustle of the falling leaves.
splendor, she thought of her lot with a sad heart, and cursed the pride
spent.--Romeo, will you come to your father's?                   130
water;" and see quotation in note on iv. 5. 75 above.
these things have by one night's work been thoroughly cleared.
on Monday evening (cf. lines 5 and 18), and Lady Capulet's talk with
Two King's Sons once went out in search of adventures, and fell into a
_Benvolio._ Romeo, away, be gone!
_Enter_ ROMEO
"Who delivered it?"
"Good heavens!" I cried in amazement.
22. _Circle._ Alluding to the ring drawn by magicians. Cf. _A.Y.L._ ii.
The King Said, "Will You Be My Dear Wife?"                        35
"You have introduced yourselves, I can see."
That all the world will be in love with night
me?' 'I do not know, and can compare my love with nothing.' But her
"May I ask if he is going to honour us with a visit himself?"
your letter?"
do not know that anything essential has been left unexplained."
she saw the sun thus rising, she said, "Cannot I, too, order the sun
revolver into the creature's flank. With a last howl of agony and
seldom found in any hands but those of the highly educated. We
When this was done, at a given signal, they began to perform their
courtesy; to _take the wall_ might be an insult.
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,
Behind the flock walked, stick in hand, an old wench, strong and big,
"I have a hunting-crop."
have always been together, and according to his account he has
_Enter_ BALTHASAR
Here the _five wits_ are distinguished from the _five senses_; but the
hounds which they had taken with them, none were seen more.
freezes! The wind will blow through the frock, and the thorns will tear
or removed. In the three other cases you will be shown a heap of
SCENE I. _A Lane by the Wall of Capulet's Orchard_
They appear to crowd the measure, but possibly "I will not marry yet"
short-bladed scissors, pasted it with paste--"
suppose: 1. I never shall be satisfied with Romeo; 2. I never shall be
77. _It fits._ Cf. _A.W._ ii. 1. 147: "where hope is coldest, and
he be going except to the convict?"
Then the bird said "Nevermore."
And that was a most vague direction. I realised it as I drove
In one instance, overlooked by the commentators generally, Shakespeare
in front of a great lake, and when she had crossed it, she came to a
God for forgiveness, and said, "Do what you will, I will bear what I
VI
hovel any longer. She would like to have a cottage."
67-69. _Her chariot ... coachmakers._ Daniel puts these lines before 59.
"A whitely wanton with a velvet brow,
wall. "Watson won't allow that I know anything of art but that is
pick them out again.
"Husband," said the woman, "have you caught nothing to-day?"
curld and full of elves locks."
_Nurse._                         O lamentable day!
form is a necessity, being that which constitutes the verse.
stepped back from the recess.
and from the sympathy of his fellow-men. And the whole seizure,
The German was sent for but professed to know nothing of the
picture of old Hugo. He made England too hot to hold him, fled to
68. _Single-soled._ "With a quibble on _sole_ and _soul_ = having but
It has been objected that _sick and green_ is a strange combination of
_Romeo._ So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that.
defiled. I could endure it all, ill-usage, solitude, a life of
And now, she went continually onward, far, far, to the very end of the
*       *       *       *       *
slept secretly in the chamber, and that he was to give him another that
Is there--_is_ there balm in Gilead?--tell me--tell me, I implore!"
Now, when they found a little brook leaping brightly over the stones,
_rent_, the blanket of the dark torn to be peeped through...."]
"Has been in the habit of carrying this stick behind his master.
on the old bench."
Little Table in the middle of the room, and said:
it answered:
So he went with her, and in the castle was a great hall paved with
THE STAR-MONEY
forth to seek for the castle of his sweetheart.
to me, the villain, in every conceivable way. Not one word of
there is always an anxiety for the safety of the object, a
The servant at once seized her by the neck, carried her to the kitchen,
"Vieni a veder Montecchi e Cappelletti,
"Why should we not seize him at once?"
Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he,
the rude touch of my hand. For _fine_ the early eds. have "sin" or
_Nurse._ This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
doubt the identity of these people."
_Capulet._ Make haste, make haste.--[_Exit Servant._]
to eat and drink, and robbers sitting at it enjoying themselves."
whispered in connection with the affair, it might have been
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
and the fine gentleman, in portraying which Shakespeare, with prophetic
where we lay, and we glared at it, all three, uncertain what
could find his way out. He then reached a large town. As no one knew
and yet thou wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
Of London's City Scenes.
See also the play upon the word in _T. of A._ i. 2. 57: "Flow this way!
caught it but he; only as soon as he had it, he galloped away.
minstrel, twelve shillings; and the cook, fifteen shillings. But, as Ben
supper, but had no thought of the animals. She carried the full dishes
A Retrospection
in war, and behaved well and bravely, but when the war was over he
want, from early morning till late night. If you would take me with
perhaps, be too ambitious a task. Yet you must admit that the
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here                           20
force brought me to such a pass, that I have been compelled to put off
characters; the post-mark "Charing Cross," and the date of
it."
56. _Uncomfortable._ Cheerless, joyless; the one instance of the word in
even in a dry season, the narrowness of the streets, and great traffic of
counsel with each other how to get rid of him and his companions.
sun;" and _Cymb._ iv. 4. 41: "the holy sun." It is remarkable that no
that laws against the sale of poisons were made in Spain, Portugal,
when Briar-Rose was to awake again. When the King's Son came near to
howling is surely not to be thought of. Stapleton may fall in
morning I shall find my way to Coombe Tracey, and if I can see
On the third day, the messenger came back again, and said, "I have not
Now, there was once a maiden who was called Jorinda, who was fairer
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
who was greatly moved, and she began to speak, and said, "Dearest
the London apprentices. Cf. _Hen. VIII._ v. 4. 53, _A.Y.L._ v. 2. 44,
running upon this man's trail. There is a complete absence of
Like ivory conduits coral cisterns filling."
blowing them till they turn round."
who could not give the date of a document within a decade or so.
when taken from the fish, is sold to confectioners and pastry-cooks, for
under him at a horrible angle, the shoulders rounded and the body
_Capulet._ What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much!
worse for drink. He declares that he heard cries but is
"It was about the late Sir Charles Baskerville that I have come
my mind about the matter."
out of place. It is simply a jocose patronizing expression = That's not
perchance--to his captive, and so found the cage empty and
Who nibbles at my door?_"
"So I think. But if we can only trace L. L. it should clear up
For other allusions to the ballad, see _L. L. L._ iv. 1. 66 and _2 Hen._
But I will keep you yet another night, in payment for which you must
Sir Henry, and that I need no help of any kind."
upon his sister's suitor--even when that suitor was so eligible a
But the next instant Holmes had emptied five barrels of his
Put her in the chair! She has fainted from ill-usage and
"If you have read the letter you will know."
132: "bear it coldly but till midnight," etc.
wooden shoe, and put it into the slipper, which fitted like a glove.
expression seems to be suggested by the gaming phrase rather than to be
Which with sweet water nightly I will dew,
that of a tall, thin man. He stood with his legs a little
charming that he stood still and listened. This was Rapunzel, who in
81. _Dry-beat._ Beat soundly. Cf. _L. L. L._ v. 2. 263: "all dry-beaten
of four miles along the edge of the moor, leading me at last to a
unspoken, came forward, and as she could not undo the evil sentence,
him, tears rolled down his face.
than in."
character, and his appearance are all in his favour, and I know
as to whether the sun moved round the earth or the earth round
THE GOLDEN GOOSE                                                 204
give them money for punishing poor animals as they do!
Then the Wolf went away to a shopkeeper, and bought a great lump of
Musicians _waiting_. _Enter_ Servingmen _with napkins_
"What can we do?"
The tower in which Maid Maleen had been imprisoned remained standing
under it, but never more so than during that long drive in the
_Friar Laurence._ Hold, daughter! I do spy a kind of hope,
salutation at meeting, and oftener at parting. Here the servant is about
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished!'
or Desdemona's Emilia? By giving her the Nurse for her confidante, the
saw upon the tor?
The stranger spread out the cloth under the animal and cried:
the lamp towards it.
"creep under this and don't disgrace us!" and with all speed they
than the miller's daughter, and they determined to give her a piece
exact spot where she had buried them.
and the beggar man had to lend a hand himself to get anything fairly
Where Juliet lives, and every cat and dog
He has now boasted that if he liked, he could cause a son to be brought
"_Little Table!
74. _Ancient._ Aged; as in ii. 4. 133 below. See also _Lear_, ii. 2. 67,
"Did the boy deliver it into your own hands?" asked Sir Henry.
as phisycions saye, that causeth folke to slepe, and therein to have
"Now you shall receive the wages of your treachery," and bound them
141. _Substantial._ Metrically a quadrisyllable.
I had no difficulty in finding her rooms, which were central and
"And the woman's name?"
I drew to part them; in the instant came
Every leaf is different on an oak-tree; but still we can only say, our
but lament and complain?
surprise that S. has fallen into this error, since he elsewhere shows a
"I must thank you," said Sherlock Holmes, "for calling my
his wife."
_Lady Capulet._ Accurst, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
'Twould surely break her heart in two!_"
sense of illusive, cf. ii. 2. 141. Some have wondered that S. here makes
shuffled cautiously towards it, trying every plank before we
"And have you made your will, Sir Henry?"
machines of every important operation and event, both in the religious
I have the time known,
child. At length, the woman hoped that God was about to grant her
[Illustration: Loggia of Capulet's House]
"We had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when
82. _Sour._ See on iii. 3. 7 above.
"Well; what does she want, now?" said the Flounder.
and said, "Get up, Husband, and just peep out of the window. Look you,
And if that could be managed, my beast would not mind,
Then the Queen was shocked, and turned yellow and green with envy. From
I informed him about my discovery and asked him whether he would
So he took the cup, and when he had swallowed the draught, he brought
is clear enough that the hound has been laid on from some article
to the moor. There were indications that Sir Charles had
girl of fourteen whom he loves--a child three days before, we might
"Everything is eaten again, we have one-half loaf left, and after that
Mrs. Quickly uses the word in the same way in _2 Hen. IV._ ii. 1. 30:
spin straw into gold."
For I have need of many orisons
won. Farmer thought it an allusion to fish-skin as used for binding
adherence to the reformed religion; and, lastly, it was the field of
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
preparations and to reach Verona before two o'clock the next morning. He
And now, having brought you up to date in the escaped convict,
The little sister cried, and said, "This time they will kill you, and
behind him the night before. It was a fine, thick piece of wood,
how much he wished for one.
any chances. The result, however, was very trying for those who
might stumble on his grave." Steevens cites 3 _Hen. VI._ iv. 7. 11 and
been able to find a single new name. But as I came to a high mountain
he put on her clothes, dressed himself in her cap, laid himself in bed,
blind tailor, and then left him alone and went his way.
Fulham Road. It was the strongest and most savage in their
On this home by Horror haunted--tell me truly, I implore--
A few days afterward, a fiddler came and sang beneath the windows,
prehistoric people. On all sides of you as you walk are the
wife."
Farewell, my coz.
wait. He had a fresh and joyous heart, and as he was going thither,
of the first, and ending early in the morning of the sixth.
But I was eager to get back to my charge. The melancholy of the
20. _Black-brow'd Night._ Cf. _King John_, v. 6. 17: "Why, here walk I
_Ham._ v. 2. 38, etc. Some have taken it to mean incantations. _Defy_ =
sacred water of baptism, and wilfully refused the benefit thereof."
At one slight bound high overleap'd all bound
"Be quiet, Grethel," said Haensel, "do not distress yourself, I will
refers to iii. 3. 126 below. Dyce cites _Faire Em_:--
to the nettle?"
_Juliet._ Here's such a coil!--come, what says Romeo?
What by no frendship could be got, with money should be bought;
soon have help. Get on me, my back can carry two such as you."
_Benvolio._ O noble prince, I can discover all
"Yes, sir."
"What sort of thing is that, which rattles round so merrily?" said the
common in S. Cf. _T.G. of V._ v. 4. 132: "I care not for her, I;" _Rich._
throat of the chained form, seemed to thrust me violently back.  For a
clothed all in gold.
or without ropes, to draw him out. After repeated attempts, they find
there is some talk of our going to them next week. One would
said to him, "Huntsman, what are you going to shoot?"
chase there, and he can lie quiet until the ship is ready for
"But that was all."
fantasticoes," etc.
been forced from them. The man was a danger to the community, an
to the church-door?"
it.
"Yes."
much the result may have shown that they were unfounded.
_Heartless_ = cowardly, spiritless; as in _R. of L._ 471, 1392.
had followed her.
sisters grudged her good fortune in downright earnest. "The wonderful
And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
In her joy she hastily gathered her basket full, thanked the Little
her voice, sprang up and cried, "Now I really am released! I have been
existed there from time immemorial, defying the owner to
safest to be on shore, we would recommend every little boy or girl to
above.
Next morning, when he awoke, the promise occurred to him. He wished to
At last, as he could not decide, he pulled off his boot, and said,
and examined it for a few minutes with his naked eyes. Then with
"In spirit?"
There was once a poor widow who lived in a lonely cottage. In front of
them away again. Then she had placed herself in the kitchen amongst the
nitre.  Indeed, it is _very_ damp.  Once more let me _implore_ you to
handkerchief with the three drops of blood fell out of her bosom, and
his command she consented to pass as his sister, though he found
Thereupon the Dove flew out at the door, and she followed him. At every
his escape. Boots, shirt, cap--it was all Sir Henry's. The tragedy
combat, when the guilt of the accused was attempted to be decided by
is, when duly considered and scientifically handled, the one
another. But to every one the Little Man said, "That is not my name."
It would be appropriate in the Friar's mouth if he were in the fields,
own statute-book; and the circumstance is a remarkable exemplification
wind were whistling outside in the fir-trees. When therefore day broke,
She delayed, until at last the King commanded her to do it. When the
SCENE V.--7. _Love._ That is, Venus. Cf. _Temp._ iv. 1. 94:--
sitting on the road.
as before.  But now there were twelve strokes to be sounded by the bell
"Shall we turn back?"
to dine with these people."
For this night's watching.
_Romeo._ Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
"There, I think." I pointed into the darkness.
I ate thee alone!_"
The Bride would not, yet wanted very much to have the dress. At last
really gone, while we should actually return at the instant when
"My unhappy brother is starving on the moor. We cannot let him
make use of this convenience; and good-natured people seldom fail to drop
"Excellent! Tell me where you picked him up and all that
some way out of the difficulty. And now, my dear Watson, we have
beautiful bird sits no longer singing in the nest. The cat has got it,
and they were to sit for fourteen days and sew a sack. And when it was
"earthquake," which occurred "eleven years" earlier, and which these
marry, and no other woman in the world." And a few days after, he
The false Bride was rewarded for what she had done by having her head
you so that you will no more dare to show yourself amongst honest
different thing," said the baronet, "you only told us, or rather
In error shall you wander still, as you haue done this whyle,
conflict of opposing sentiments, run into some extravagance of diction."
ed. the plan of the authors is carried out in the Notes by copious
pictured as they are, that no feeling for them may interfere in the
scorn!" _Solemnity_ here expresses only the idea of ceremony, or formal
"My dear Holmes!"
Jameson says that, "gradually and most naturally, in such a mind once
as in Milton's _Lycidas_, to her sandals, does not matter. See also on
there was nothing to do.
The earliest reference to the play in the literature of the time is in a
He burst into one of his rare fits of laughter as he turned away
By the inscription on the Monument, the Roman Catholics are accused of
is that friend or enemy now? Has he remained in London, or has he
Coombe Tracey who might be of service to us in the matter. In
delighted.
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye;
Some comfort, nurse.
she saw plainly that little Snow-White was again alive. "But now," she
weeping together. Then he asked, "Why are you weeping?"
tongues defrauding our eyes, This is another oak leaf!"
106. _Anatomy._ Contemptuous for body; as in _T.N._ iii. 2. 67.
Then the King flew into a passion, and ordered a dark tower to be
Tybalt and the disgust of Mercutio at what seems to him "calm,
91. _Fires._ The early eds. have "fire," which White retains as an
It came to pass, that one day he traveled through a dense forest, and
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her;
The stork rose up, let its long legs hang down, and flew gently away.
impatience--so natural to the man--that the full fruition of his love
take a potion and bring it up again."
Grimm's Fairy Tales
want to take to your heels. Why are you standing loitering there?" she
And Darkness and Decay and the Red Death held illimitable dominion over
Grant me my life. What do you want with such a slender little fellow
of Sir Charles. I have made some inquiries myself in the last few
every critical student should have it at hand for reference.
It is more than he can endure; and his wife, when Juliet begs her to
When they had eaten and drunk, and were merry, the old King asked the
me, and she tapped the ground impatiently with her foot.
"Where is it?" Holmes whispered; and I knew from the thrill of
"Is there any other opening?"
They were married. Then just as they were in the greatest happiness,
future. Apart from the law he seems a kindly, good-natured
excuse of her subsequent conduct. She trembles before her stern mother
The King and Queen, who had just come home, and had entered the great
down the mountain. She had no stick in her hand, yet he could see that
dead an emperor.
it there is no man who is better worth having at your side when
"It is nothing," he said, at last.
the others being metrical. See p. 159 above. _Opposition_ has five
hid his savage ally. A huge driving-wheel and a shaft half-filled
that _brace_ as applied to men is generally contemptuous; as in _Temp._
Saving your mincing, the capacity
and that indeed most swiftly, if you will promise to do what I desire
The guards answer, "_Pass Keys_," and rest their firelocks.  The yeoman
184. _Mammet._ Puppet, doll. Cf. _1 Hen. IV._ ii. 3. 95: "To play with
55.  The Lamplighter.
And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
114. _I will carry no crotchets._ I will bear none of your whims; with a
In steade of mariage gloues, now funerall gloues they haue,
appears to be certain, and that is that Mr. James Desmond, who is
"Come, let us go."
a chandelier in it. They said therefore to each other, "What can we do
on pain of death, and the Queen herself was to take the key into her
before the judge, and judgment was delivered against them. The daughter
_Re-enter_ Nurse
characteristics. But you were very young when you last saw
Two-Eyes now awakened One-Eye, and said, "One-Eye, you want to take
When the King now saw how one single man was carrying away the entire
Let down thy hair._"
rushed into his room in his dressing-gown and was back again in a
peace, he let him go.
conversation with the lady. So interested was he that I had to
the great business of his play. The scene of the musicians is very
uninteresting, but the privilege of living with youth, of helping
way!" He turned his horse about, and rode back with the golden thread.
inquired if he, too, could not be a doctor.
"here afore Heaven,
"Ah," she answered, "I was only thinking of Maid Maleen."
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pin'd.
He sees no reason for haste; but later, influenced by the noble wooer's
Without a sudden calm, will overset
themselves in a corner of the room, behind some clothes which were
fast in it, so had died a pitiful death.
leaf moved again.
wench), in 1 _Hen. IV._ iii. 1. 198: "a peevish, self-willed harlotry,
Remembering how I love thy company.
79. _Sometime._ Used by S. interchangeably with _sometimes_.
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
60. _Prevails._ Avails. Cf. _unprevailing_ in _Ham._ i. 2. 107.
it not." So "Heaven shield," in _M. for M._ iii. 1. 141, etc. _Devotion_
The unreasonable fury of a beast,
from a burning candle should fall on him, he would be changed into a
"Father, I have become a joiner."
"But, Mother," said the maiden, "why do you begin work at so late an
Wide were spread her canvass sails,
I have forgot that name and that name's woe.
what I have said. Go to your room, you two, and we shall talk
together like one who is in the last extremity of doubt and
said to stand behind it in which a wonderfully beautiful Princess,
_Juliet._ But to be frank and give it thee again;
up, whereon the bird rested, and then carried them home, where they
remembered Marlowe's _Edward II._, which was performed before 1593:--
the many formerly used at the several principal entries into the city.
that I wrote this letter to Sir Charles I had learned that there
70.
We sucking on her natural bosom find,
attain my own end.
When the animals were fed, the girl seated herself at the table by the
"Come, come, we are not so far wrong, after all," said Holmes.
And what do you think happened? The spindle sprang out of her hand in
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
windows stretched across the orchard and the moor. One of them
phantasm--much of what has been since seen in  "Hernani".  There were
Her initials were L. L."
communicate with the police."
"I believe that he would do exactly what you now suggest," said
for the mail-coaches.
desires."
is so dismal that it might have suggested the story. We found a
the night, and said:
with seats for passengers on the bridge, supported by two beautiful Ionic
other. I told Sir Henry how the matter stood, and he at once, in
"What can I tell you about him?" she asked, and her fingers
response to all that the Lady and the Nurse have urged in praise of
brought nothing but trouble here! I've not heard of him since I
to Baskerville Hall if she really had been, for a trap would be
written--is in perfect keeping with the poet's conception of Juliet as
Came he not home to-night?
remarks that the word "undoubtedly did not appear indelicate to the
I am not the true Bride._"
and would have gone on forever, as long as his legs would carry him,
lost eye. But, in order that the King might not see it, she was to lie
which words were uniformly accented differently in the time of
faithfully, but he has dismissed me, and left me to hunger, and now I
Act V                                                    136
eyes, lifted up the lid of the coffin, sat up, and was once more alive.
the expence of rather more than one hundred and fifty thousand pounds.
Poison hath residence, and medicine power;
leavings, and upon this they lived.
In our picture is seen
and each time the King's Son thought the carriage was breaking. But
"That's just what I do mean to say. I only had three pairs in the
Round and round the world we've past;
Pretty little Cock,
_Paris._ O, I am slain!--[_Falls._] If thou be merciful,
_Mercutio._ Any man that can write may answer                     10
his conduct. Our wagonette had topped a rise and in front of us
"That's the truth, sir," said Barrymore. "I said that it was not
and red cows grazed in well-hedged fields where the lush grasses
_Paris._ These times of woe afford no time to woo.--
towards you, since they warn you of danger."
The house is banked in with rolling clouds, which rise now and
disturbed them.  _In pace requiescat!_
That westward rooteth from the city's side,
"I fail to see how you could have done more."
follow them and break into their intimate conversation seemed to
She came like the other to the beautiful meadow, and walked along the
Woman.
quibbling the girl learns what love means, and the larger life of
She counted the reeds by the sea, and cut off the eleventh, struck the
bundle.
they believed that their father was near. It was, however, not the axe,
the pressure of her grip.
figurative meaning of _smooth_ is sufficiently explained by the
etc.
to stand still, and could not stir from the place until she bade him
"The only variations from the story in the play are the three which have
_Romeo._ Not I, believe me. You have dancing shoes
And euen at this day the tombe is to be seene;
morning, and had given them explicit orders not to stir from the house.
LITTLE BROTHER AND LITTLE SISTER
"_No, no, my lord, you do mistake!
helping to carry it. They all swam to the shore and put the crown on
servant--perhaps to avoid the introduction of another character.
they were white, they believed all that he said, and opened the door.
were danced into holes, and they were forced to leave off. The Princes
66. _Procures her._ Leads her to come. Cf. ii. 2. 145 above. See also
118. _Doing damned hate._ Cf. v. 2. 20 below: "do much danger," etc.
When the smoke had circled about the cavern, suddenly a little Black
The Cat thought well of it, and went with them.
Far, to east or western shore,
confusion of their cries."
"_Little Table!
And now, the boy had to plant and water the garden, hoe and dig, and
Then a long, agonised, writhing neck shot upward and a dreadful
I broke and reached him a flagon of De Grave.  He emptied it at a
suddenly perceived the old Witch kneeling on the ground cutting grass
the charm of sentiment and innocence is thrown over the whole; and her
not. It was this letter, if you can call it a letter, which
The form of death; meantime I writ to Romeo
such a quarrel? Thy head is as full of quarrels as
"Now you have got what you want," said he; "and we can gnaw at a bare
for you any longer. You are big enough, and can provide for yourselves."
mistake it is for Mr. Barrymore himself to complain."
may have been--yes, by Jove, it _is_ a curly-haired spaniel."
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
_Mercutio._ Without his roe, like a dried herring. O
knowledge it might save me a long and weary hunt. But incredulity
her no peace, and she thought of nothing but how she could bring them
colour varied in accordance with the prevailing hue of the decorations
return for it presented the tailor with a large stone house.
Is built of a very hard kind of stone called granite.  This bridge was
body. We must filch it from him, my dear Daughter. It is more suitable
In a certain mill, lived an old miller who had neither wife nor child.
balcony at the back of the Elizabethan stage], which did duty in the old
to the letter.
Then, as he ran across the yard by the straw-heap, the Donkey gave him
nut, and a far more beautiful dress was within it. When the Bride
palace; if not, she was to expect that force would be used against her.
against the moor. This at least was real, but it might have been
away; and there flows a ruddier light through the blood-coloured panes;
the open country. The flies on the wall crept again. The fire in the
And with wild looks bid me devise some means                   240
And the horse seems as if he had something to say;
"Yes, it is an interesting instance of a throwback, which appears
"Cake and wine. Yesterday was baking-day, so poor sick Grandmother is
Till holy church incorporate two in one.               [_Exeunt._
Then two white pigeons came in by the kitchen-window, and afterward
watermen.  This bridge is a noble structure, consisting of nine arches,
Theobald and is almost universally adopted.
"No, sir, no; though I am happy to have had the opportunity of
See also _T.N._ iii. 1. 13: "a cheveril glove," etc.
one of the most singular and sensational crimes of modern times.
the cold, inaccessible Rosaline forms but the prologue, the threshold,
the house, followed their trades, and, as they had learnt them so well
3.  The sceptre with the dove of peace.
Then love--devouring death do what he dare,
Verona before plucking one to wear on his heart.
Or, to see the light of day,
For then thou canst not pass to Mantua,
which the critics have given very little attention, but it is an
for horses and cows, and the very best of carriages. There was a
themselves on Ash-Maiden's shoulders, one on the right, the other on
ball of yarn. Then she made little shirts of white silk, and as she had
Something intervened to prevent my going."
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud,--
being _pinked_ or punched with holes, is well _flowered_. Cf. _unpinked_
distance. Then the baronet gently opened his door and we set out
with the neighbours.
Come, gentle Night, come, loving, black-brow'd Night,
step in the passage.
Too sudden to be certain."
When the Little Man came the next day, she began with _Caspar,
young wooer does not excite her imagination in the least. Her only
that his clear and logical mind would not be drawn from its
Witch's forest."
_I_, which explains the play upon the word here. Most editors print "but
woman of Spanish blood does not condone such an injury so
forest, who had appeared very strange to him, and must be a Witch.
_Enter_ JULIET
most are busied when they're most alone."
been before he became master of that ill-omened estate.
gnarled little fellow, saluted Sir Henry Baskerville, and in a
rejoiced and crept forth from beneath the bed. The brothers were not
S.), cf. _K. John_, iii. 4. 29, _T. of A._ iv. 1. 33, and v. 3. 45
the other, but the waiting-maid was blinded, and did not recognize the
said, "I am tired, I want to sleep as well as you; lift me up or I will
breathlessness, and acute attacks of nervous depression.
14. _All my hopes but she._ Capulet seems to imply here that he has lost
_Benvolio._ Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
"Come with us to Bremen. You understand night-music, so you can be a
seventh step a red drop of blood and a little white feather fell down,
47. _Enforce._ Force; as often. Cf. _Temp._ v. 1. 100: "Enforce them to
113. _Saw you him to-day?_ This use of the past tense is not allowable
heard of this she came and asked for the dress, and wanted to buy it,
same reason she may not have gone for the spices at once, but may have
into the town.
about the stupid mistake I made in thinking that you were Sir
by Brooke, that Shakespeare drew his material. It is to be noted,
Then the little sister cried out, "Pray, dear little Brother, do not
each other.
It came into the birds' mind, however, that they would no longer be
70. _Taking the measure_, etc. Cf. _A.Y.L._ ii. 6. 2: "Here lie I down,
34. _Pardonnez-mois._ Fellows who are continually saying
The eldest thought, "I shall soon find an opportunity of pulling out a
"No, no, sir; no, not against you!" It was a woman's voice, and
[_Exeunt._
have more than once within my own experience depended upon their
behind, we followed into Oxford Street and so down Regent Street.
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
needs have taken if she were to reach her own home.
_Enter_ ROMEO
Ash-Maiden had jumped quickly down from the back of the pigeon-house,
II._ ii. 3. 156, _Hen. VIII._ i. 1. 217, i. 2. 210, etc.
ran out, and the scraps were scattered all around. And when the people
built figure as he sprang to his feet and turned to run. At the
49. _Those eyes._ That is, Romeo's.
which follows up the attack of the vanguard or of the main army.
probably approached to sniff at him, but finding him dead had
"He would not do anything so mad, sir. We have provided him with
It happened, however, that a King's Son came into the forest, and went
the hound was on his trail?"
very heavily, I can bear it no longer. Go to the Flounder--I am King,
hold to his word and give him his daughter.
first thief," and as he actually was so, he was terrified, and said to
home and tells her father that she has been to the Friar's, and is ready
The which if you with patient ears attend,
rushes. Cf. _1 Hen. IV._ iii. 1. 214: "on the wanton rushes lay you
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late;
Then she rejoiced and thought that they would soon be delivered, and
searched this room carefully before lunch."
may take it, therefore, that the letter was composed by an
us at the high, thin window of old stained glass, the oak
[Illustration]
Coleridge, in his _Notes and Lectures upon Shakespeare_, says: "The
And as she was so beautiful, the huntsman had pity on her and said,
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
castle."
breath.  His eyes flashed with a fierce light.  He laughed and threw
Charles, as we well might be considering all that he has done for
32. _Against._ Cf. iv. 1. 113 below: "against thou shalt awake."
forget his anger, and receive you well."
And makes himself an artificial night.
They had therefore to go out and look for the second time. The
my brothers." And when night came, she ran away, and went straight into
skilful surgeons, and proper nurses.  This hospital has long remained a
early eds. have "strife." The expression "To cease your sute" occurs in
satisfaction, and always shook her bed so hard that the feathers flew
to run behind. Before long, the sexton came by and saw his master, the
26: "to see thee pass thy punto." The _hay_ was a home-thrust; from the
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
fright.
"_Little Table!
Chapter 14 The Hound of the Baskervilles
ears. Then my senses and my voice came back to me, while a
different plants, and the sweetness of their odours, it is altogether a
an incredible amount of tobacco. After you left I sent down to
etc.
not in the early ones. It was a common form of the word. Cf. Chaucer,
high, narrow towers rose over the trees. The driver pointed with
And yet 'not proud'! Mistress minion, you,                       150
Pompey's basis lies along," etc.
crushing weight of responsibility seemed in an instant to be
"My boy here. James, you delivered that telegram to Mr. Barrymore
hear it.
with the same questioning eyes.
identity. If you are here, then it follows that Mr. Sherlock
strange presence and his commanding attitude had given to me. "A
and were so clever, they earned a great deal of money.
jaw, as shown in the space between these marks, is too broad in
crutches, came creeping out. Haensel and Grethel were so terribly
"'calls to mind where hangs a piece
_Benvolio._ Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
"severall," which some editors adopt. _Married_ = "closely joined, and
night indoors, and what must it be in a stone hut upon the moor.
"No."
"I will consider about that," said the woman.
194. _Lieve._ Often used for _lief_ in the old eds. It is sometimes
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
Wills not as I'd have her will._"
with some surprise at my friend. "I don't pretend to know much
grove of trees, whose top branches extend toward each other till they
So they went away together, and took with them their little child as
everything, and still he had no horse.
She, however, liked it so much--so very much--that the next day she
"Myself would, on the rearward of reproaches,
LITTLE BROTHER AND LITTLE SISTER                                  30
[_Exeunt._
Juliet about marrying Paris (iii. 5. 67 fol.) is early the next
"Only rich people," and told her what they had on hand.
"Come," said the woman, "isn't that beautiful?"
noise lasted for several minutes, during which, that I might hearken to
signed the initials L. L."
fisherman's hut, and the man was obliged to follow his former trade and
amended."
musician. I will play the lute, and you shall beat the kettledrum."
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
that have entranced the ear and stirred the heart of the world for ages,
nights' work, for on the first we drew entirely blank. I sat up
Three apprentices served under him.
rushed hurriedly through the six chambers, while none followed him on
had hardly any need to give the soldier a sleeping-draught. In any
were those schemes of reconstruction and improvement which have
had the weather-beaten appearance of one who has spent most of
my verdict."
Ah! how the poor little sister did lament when she had to fetch the
"Gave me a bit of bacon."
evasions of speech here used by the young girl-wife are precisely those
"I may not know exactly where he is, but I am quite sure that I
Not far from the Tower is Rosemary Lane, where Rag Fair is daily held.
Every day we hoped that he was gone, but as long as he was there
we have not actually had the triumph of bringing him back as our
Next morning, the wife awoke first. It was just daybreak, and from her
The joiner and his comrades made merry until late into the night. At
"It's dead, whatever it is," said Holmes. "We've laid the family
"Ah, neighbour," says oyster, "indeed, so do I."
went with the shoe into her room and wanted to try it on, and her
to my own people."
Holmes was silent, but his little darting glances showed me the
she peeped in, and saw a youth so handsome, and so brilliant with gold
But at home, the other brother was standing by the Gold-Lilies, when
The man in his terror consented to everything, and when the woman at
Henry Baskerville.
to prevent it from being visible, save in the direction of
ever observes. Where do you think that I have been?"
first seeing it, is very naturally expressed in the following lines:
Grey-headed beadles walked before, with wands as white as snow,
seemed impassive were it not for the sensitive mouth and the
Cf. v. 3. 203 below.
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
her with death if she were to betray anything.
O'er the threshold just happen'd to stray,
_Page_: v. 3(9). Whole no. 9.
So early walking did I see your son.                             120
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
HAENSEL AND GRETHEL                                               59
that the intoxication of Fortunato had in a great measure worn off. The
"I took nothing, but had something given me."
It was begun in September, 1814, and was completed, and opened for public
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
And she left him no peace until he consented. "But I feel very sorry
found in the 1st quarto in iii. 1, where Benvolio describes the brawl in
hath all too short a date;" _M.N.D._ iii. 2. 373: "With league whose
Chapter 6  Baskerville Hall
"How did you know what I was doing? I believe you have eyes in
That I may see that most desired day;"
course of the old story was entirely unnecessary for the sake of
And vice sometime's by action dignified.
THE HIGHST GROVND.
still holds a place in the domestic _materia medica_. For its use in
"No faith, no honesty in men; all naught,
joyfully home.
_Per._ iv. 1. 61.
knives!" and _King Edward III._, 1599: "Here by my side do hang my
been taken to remove all clues. The address, you observe is
masculine. _The New Eng. Dict._ quotes Sylvester, _Du Bartas_ (1598):
no need to do such things, but with the peasant folk the saying goes,
"No, I had been staying with a friend," said the doctor.
[Illustration]
Say they are saints," etc.
this seems too forced a construction.
"But what is the danger?"
love, the secret of which had been so strangely stolen from her. As the
Chapter 9  The Light upon the Moor [Second Report of Dr. Watson]
92. _I never shall be satisfied_, etc. Daniel remarks: "The several
But he had neither seen nor heard anything of the Queen's child. The
his friend Dr. Mortimer, and he was told by the latter all
_Benvolio._ Am I like such a fellow?
Inherit at my house. Hear all, all see,                           30
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
8. _Precious-juiced flowers._ S. here prepares us for the part which the
her. So they had to spend the night with the Goose.
morning, she went out and gathered Star-Flowers and began to sew.
stag, and when he awoke in the morning, he said to his wife, "I must go
companies.
"A spy?"
And now the tailor felt how thoughtless his life had been, prayed to
use, in March, 1819.  The entire expense incurred by the building of this
87. _Passado._ See on ii. 4. 27 above.
Then two of the eyes which Three-Eyes had, shut and fell asleep, but
There was once on a time, a little girl whose father and mother were
Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
168. _Alas, that love, whose view_, etc. Alas "that love, though
of Selden. I think I can promise that none of you will be
"To meet a woman! He?"
his eyes.
"to make her unparalleled beauty more the subject of thought and
"If this woman is in truth his wife, where does Mrs. Laura Lyons
113. _Ill-beseeming._ Cf. i. 5. 76 above.
But Two-Eyes climbed up, and the golden apples did not get out of her
_Juliet._ O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
119. _Inconstant toy._ Fickle freak or caprice. Cf. _Ham._ i. 3. 5: "a
longed for it three times as much as before. If he was to have any
Torch-bearers, _and others_
tangible form.
When the company was assembled, he put his table in the middle of the
Nearly opposite to the entrance of this fine building, and on each side
Is my dear son with such sour company;
"His nerves were so worked up that the appearance of any dog
pieces of money! And although she had just given her little shirt away,
that we can shut the bread in." And when once Grethel was inside, she
upon his black mare, and there ran mute behind him such a
it that of the body of Hugo Baskerville lying near her,
[Picture: The Chair-mender]
the two daughters what he should bring back for them.
staircase, for it would be a sad thing to fall down among that frightful
with this comb. When you have done, lay it down on the bank, and you
Being purg'd, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
once says, "I will hence _to-night_." He has ample time to make his
but I must allow that no man could make a more handsome apology
he some sinister design of his own? What interest could he have
something to cover it with."
"And yet, my dear Watson, there is so very close a connection
tied her up.
were doubtfully distraught;" _Id._ iv. 7. 31: "His greedy throte,
LITTLE RED-CAP                                                   140
of the noble Fortunato.  The voice said--
Gentlemen of Verona_, and other plays which the critics generally assign
_Mercutio._ This cannot anger him; 'twould anger him
simple and might be found in any issue, but 'moor' would be less
And when the girl was brought to him, he took her into a room which was
down over the table almost as far as the ground. By the stove lay three
The King's Son set off, but he sighed and was sorrowful, for how was he
gazed from Sir Henry to me.
crime and the wanton brutality which had marked all the actions
that he should not see them. Now, this is a most suggestive
_Juliet._ Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
When they came nearer they saw a Dwarf with an old withered face and
done had it not been for my wife. Only a few weeks ago she was
dry, and he fell upon soft moss without being hurt. But he could not
seventy-five perfumes, which it is very necessary that a criminal
for nine days, she at length came to the Iron Stove. Then a voice
"_Spindle, my Spindle, haste, haste thee away,
when he saw that the others could not get up to him, he thought, "Why
11. _My gossip Venus._ Cf. _M. of V._ iii. 1. 7: "if my gossip Report be
beautiful clothes and laid them on the grave, and the bird had taken
but led them to a handsomely-spread table; and when they had eaten and
brothers threw him backwards into the well, took the maiden, the Horse,
At last, the turn came to Simpleton, who sought in the moss. But it was
mill, consoled and in good spirits. He had not yet reached it, when the
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.--
Stapleton sank upon the floor in front of us. As her beautiful
memorable that Romeo utters. Now passion, imagination, and will are
Steevens and Ulrici take the ground that it has its ordinary meaning.
hall of Capulet's house.
irregular pauses of a play that stood in place of a division into acts,
do not go away, or I shall be beaten!"
They asked, "What do you here in the forest in the winter time, in your
Some one of bewty, favour, shape, and of so lovely porte:
Now it happened, one day, that the shuttle was stained with her blood.
will go back; you will be ill, and I cannot be responsible.  Besides,
magistrate during his mayoralty.  It is a stone building of magnificence,
_Mercutio._ Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in
settled down in his own hotel. That means that while they are, as
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
_IV._ v. 3. 106.
After he had taken the maiden up on his horse, the old woman showed him
melancholy outside and in. The baronet is in a black reaction
and then a little table appears before her covered with the best of
sword, and gave it to them for food. Then they came hopping up to it,
to work with a savage hound. The use of artificial means to make
that it was _only_ to call him back, parting was "such sweet sorrow."
was. But the old woman quickly called out, "For your life leave the
She led her into the room and lighted a new log. She did not, however,
THE SINGING, SOARING LARK
to anyone."
Hanging his head, he went up to his wife's bedside and when she said,
had delivered her dear brothers from the power of the enchantment. The
once."
King."
235. _Pay that doctrine._ Give that instruction. Cf. _L. L. L._ iv. 3.
chaffinches, owls and crows, larks and sparrows, how can I name them
she turned round and left the room.
There was great joy when she arrived, for they had all believed that
"Will you be silent, you odious toad," said he, "or I will shoot you
attayned to the age of xviii. yeares."
saving your reverence, but sometimes, as here = God have mercy! Cf. _1
Digressing from the valour of a man;
Act IV                                                   118
and in an instant all was gone.
The flesh of men!_"
We kept together in our chivalry!'"
"Nitre," I replied.  "How long have you had that cough?"
and then she went and kissed him.
the helm to the "desperate pilot," and says, "The ship is yours, run her
[Picture: Countryman on a stage coach]
His brothers were satisfied with this, as was agreed before-hand. And,
cannot remain here. When he climbs higher, toward the summit of the
goat's head, and shaved her as clean as the palm of his hand. And as
Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
_Good thou._ For this vocative use of _good_, cf. _Temp._ i. 1. 3, 16,
there is nothing which I shall hold back. One thing I swear to
"Did you not wish for anything first?" said the woman.
loves me best, and always runs to meet me on my return home."
when she was satisfied, she said, as the Wise Woman had taught her:
going?"
medical shelf I took down the Medical Directory and turned up the
"_I must go my maid to see,
Sir Henry lay insensible where he had fallen. We tore away his
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
Coombe Tracey, have you?"
go through it solemnly, or at best with staid propriety. They reply
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
her, and it was marvelous how beautiful she was! The old King called
"What do you say, Watson?"
visit from every enquiring stranger; but the insertion of a full
Baskerville who goes there meets with an evil fate. I feel sure
When he had consumed his dearly-bought bread, he got on his legs again,
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows,
of events correctly, but there is one point which you have left
[Illustration: THERE LAY THE GOLD RING IN THE SHELL]
"The evidence points to 1594-1595 as the time at which the play was
"What shall we give her as she is so good, and has shared her bread
autumn. Their origin was formerly not understood, but they are now
out by the wind.
shone in his face she knew him also. They embraced and kissed each
perceive."
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
consorted us," etc. For the intransitive use of the word, see on 43
hair rolled down on his shoulders. And it was splendid to behold.
See also _Rich. II_. iii. 3. 168 and _Cymb._ ii. 3. 24.
195. _Properer._ Handsomer. Cf. _A.Y.L._ i. 2. 129, iii. 5. 51, etc. See
upon the water.  This bridge was begun in the year 1760, from a design of
_Nurse._ Hie to your chamber. I'll find Romeo
My true love's passion; therefore pardon me,
the borders of the great Grimpen Mire. It came with the wind
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
enough, and I am glad that he should understand her value. They
fare with you no better than with the others, and you would never come
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
is the same to them. 'Come, we'll in here; tarry for the mourners, and
when with poised net he drew near the settled butterfly, I
more clearly then how this thing strikes me."
Holmes had said to Stapleton on the night before that his visit
etc., were all forms of the word now written _auburn_. In _Cor._ ii. 3.
The Nix descended into the water again, and he hurried back to his
alive, and had suffered no hurt whatever, for in his greediness the
a long time, if there had not been a rustling and cracking in the
_distraught_ often; as in _F.Q._ iv. 3. 48: "Thus whilest their minds
building.
Beneath them sit the aged men, wise guardians of the poor:
With letter-bag you'll find:
13. _How he dares._ For the play on _dare_ = venture, and _dare_ =
"My Child, what are you so afraid of? Is there a Giant outside who
_Romeo._ Why, then is my pump well flowered.
Rolled Down                                                  111
"And a man of precise mind, evidently."
alteration of _alone_, of obscure origin" (_New Eng. Dict._) found in
effected" (Schmidt). Cf. _Henry VIII._ iii. 2. 311: "You wrought to be a
Richly in two short hours."
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
I could merely see the outline, but his height told me that it
Both for them selfe and eke for those that should come after,[7]
"To Grethel, Mother."
fan, and she finds occasion to use it. "The nights are only softer days,
surprised to learn that what we have heard is the cry of the last
brief moment I hesitated--I trembled.  Unsheathing my rapier, I began
Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore."
Two households, both alike in dignity,
out, if it were to fall down, so have we not reason to weep?"
[_Retiring slowly._
sombre impression which our arrival had left upon my mind.
bounds of even the prince's indefinite decorum. There are chords in the
The Lion is there fighting with a Dragon. The Dragon, however, is an
darkness when the powers of evil are exalted."
51. _Zounds._ Like _'swounds_ (see _Ham._ ii. 2. 604), an oath
present play, out of about 2500 ten-syllable verses, nearly 500 are in
Thousands of little boys and girls, raising their innocent hands;
"Come see the Capulets and Montagues,--
For myself, while agreeing substantially with these authorities, I think
"And so did I," said Baskerville. "Every inch of it."
syllables.
dreamed to-night;" _W.T._ ii. 3. 10: "He took good rest to-night," etc.
CLEVER HANS
190. _Lay hand on heart, advise._ Consider it seriously. Cf. Brooke's
having a confidential conversation. The servant stood by and listened.
_Juliet._ What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
only this one daughter. They, therefore, resolved they would send, in
or distaste; but, in the next, his brow reddened with rage.
"Why, yes," said he, "and the strange thing is, Mr. Sherlock
the alley, and it was at the far end of it that his body
_Histoire de Deux Amans_. The earliest English version of the romance
"It is all very well for you to talk," replied the bear, "a furious
THE SOURCES OF THE PLOT
up again. She did draw him up, but when he came near the edge, she
the principle beverage of the Arabians.  The flesh supplies them with
England. I learned at the British Museum that he was a recognized
of Sir Henry's--the boot which was abstracted in the hotel, in all
within his own lifetime, profit by his good fortune, and many
languid dreamer to the man of action.
Then they hurried back and modeled the palace in wax with such rapidity
three hundred and fifty pensioners, who are provided with lodging, food,
Brink's _Five Lectures on Shakespeare_ (1895); Boas's _Shakespeare and
miles an hour, including stoppages: they carry also passengers and
"None."
[Illustration]
the left, and remained sitting there.
opened the door. When they had made a bargain, the old woman said, "Now
however, never once given him a new coat, and he had been obliged to
43. _Festering._ Corrupting; as in _Hen. V._ iv. 3. 88 and _Sonn._ 94.
[Illustration]
thanked her, and only shook her head a little. The daughter sat down
to that I'll swear! Very glad I should be, sir, to see Sir Henry
Then the cook said, "Early to-morrow morning, when the forester is out
and was content and played round about her. In the evening, when the
as the first rays of the sun shone into the garden, he saw all the
short-bladed scissors, since the cutter had to take two snips
Upon so soft a subject as myself!--                              210
And Conrad went on to relate what happened on the goose-pasture, and
events from memory."
what it might. She took nothing with her but a little ring belonging
"Good day, Hans. What good thing do you bring?"
rooms loudly and clearly, for the prince was a bold and robust man, and
again.
barefoot."
Now, as Two-Eyes saw just as other human beings did, her sisters and
casks and puncheons intermingling, into the inmost recesses of
yet I have more than once caught a look of the strongest
"Well done!" said the old man, "your brothers will have to exert
earliest indication I had of this was a low moaning cry from the depth
active man like him, and she is a very fascinating and beautiful
owing to a wonderful Gold Fish which he had caught, and to which in
etc.
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
Would through the airy region stream so bright
the insane. Cf. _C. of E._ iv. 4. 97: "They must be bound and laid in
Though some persons may be incommoded by wet weather, yet the poor little
"Yes. I was telling Sir Henry that it was rather late for him to
were growing.
_Lear_, iv. 6. 226.
into the hall, and the door clanged heavily behind us. It was a
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
the innocent response, "What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?"
year. It is a short account of the facts elicited at the death of
consort you till bedtime;" _J.C._ v. 1. 83: "Who to Philippi here
Nor aught so good but, strain'd from that fair use,
Two other quartos appeared before the folio of 1623, one in 1609 and the
window would serve the purpose, must have been looking out for
116. _Sour woe delights_, etc. That is, "misfortunes never come single."
To cease thy suit and leave me to my grief;
_Mercutio._ O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
suggested, of course, by the story of the family hell-hound, and
See also _T.G. of V._ ii. 4. 181, _Rich. III._ iii. 4. 2, etc.
When he had slept a little while, the Old Woman came and shook him till
"Did you answer it yourself?"
in the moonlight, and dry again.
himself, "I have traveled about for such a long time, I will take a
distance.
paralyzed were we by the apparition that we allowed him to pass
(that is, to attack me anew); and _Much Ado_, iv. 1. 128:--
interpretations of which this ambiguous speech is capable are, I
time.
went and sat beneath it, and wept and prayed, and a little White Bird
Fathers and mothers, too, will enjoy reading the tales aloud and
glimmered white through the darkness.
poetry. The sight of Antonio reminds Shylock of his hatred of the
Herford regards this interpretation as "a prosaic idea;" but it seems to
and turned back. Half-way home, however, he was overcome with fatigue,
drive. So excited and alarmed was he that I was compelled to go
Iron Stove, but it was nowhere to be found. For nine days she sought
I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone,
from the first draught of the play.
The King grew angry, and said, "That is not allowed. He must appear
beginning of their conversation, which has been going on while Capulet
"I have a daughter," said the old woman, "who is as beautiful as any
calling Peter the servant to the minstrel" (White).
offering him my arm.  He leaned upon it heavily.  We continued our
expression, some hardness, perhaps, of eye, some looseness of lip
_Benvolio._ He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall;
the gentleman.
In half an hour she promis'd to return.
she pleased. But hardly had she put the comb in her hair, then the
"That I may catch the King's Daughter's Golden Apple."
shone with radiance. And soon she said:
Is to himself--I will not say how true--
boy and his sister were enticed away by a decently dressed woman, who
given her. A dress lay therein as brilliant as the sun itself.
ed. 1884); Gervinus's _Shakespeare Commentaries_ (Bunnett's translation,
may seem more cheerful in the morning."
Then Clever Elsie began to weep and said, "If I get Hans, and we have a
Grimpen, Thorsley, and High Barrow."
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
23. _The earthquake._ Tyrwhitt suggested that this may refer to the
"Yes, sir."
accomplice with the proofs and papers, putting him in as heir,
And she too desperate would not go with me,
Here merchants meet from all parts of the world.  The traffic on the seas
they reached a town, they went about and paid their respects to the
The third of the boys was, however, the drudge, who was looked on as
that now she would be allowed to go with them to the feast.
the horse of the King's Daughter was called Falada, and could speak.
so that the view of the whole extent is scarcely impeded.  Here the
land. High mountains and deep valleys lay between them. In order to
CITY SCENES.
he said, "Ah, Wife, if you are Pope, do let well alone!"
"But surely he would hear us."
for spices. It has also been suggested that a servant would not venture
night, as their wealth had increased so did it again decrease, year by
Betwixt the Capilets and him great frendship grew:
knife, and was about to pierce little Snow-White's innocent heart, she
_Juliet._ Good even to my ghostly confessor.
belabored the poor young fellow so vigorously with the yard-measure
"One more direction! I wish you to drive to Merripit House. Send
"I am old," said he, "my death is nigh, and I have wished to take
The woodcutter, however, arose before dawn to go into the wood, and
with Sir Henry in his rooms until nearly three o'clock in the
himself to be appeased.
"It depends upon the breed of men quite as much as on the
not for the loss of the charming companionship of the boys, I
_Juliet._ Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands.
privacy of the maiden meditation. Even to comment upon it seems like
"'Tis some visitor," I muttered, "tapping at my chamber door--
watch if Two-Eyes eats anything when she is out, and if any one fetches
get there in good time."
communal rights, and he applies his knowledge sometimes in favour
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
Take care, my lads, not to crowd too much sail, or the boat may upset!
can understand and feel it even when recalling the passionate exchange
wine were in front of them. Stapleton was talking with animation,
foundation of a castle to the south, towards the river, which was
_Benvolio._ Romeo will answer it.
Singing, Soaring Lark, she was beside herself with joy.
77. _Simpleness._ Folly. Elsewhere = simplicity, innocence; as in _Much
lay in hiding there. But every second night we made sure if he
"I must carry it, dear Sir," answered she; "rich folk's children have
against you."
Her heart would surely break in two!_"
EDITED BY
it is to be sad. The birds which sing too early in the morning, are
Next day, it seemed to him that he was on the right track. He still
Charles was a retiring man, but the chance of his illness brought
meet him. We may suppose him to be twenty, but hardly older. He has seen
takest upon thee to hit anie Englishman with a thrust upon anie button,"
I looked at him in surprise.  He repeated the movement--a grotesque one.
The youth did not know where the Tree of Life stood, but he set out,
loomed through the darkness which had girt me so long.
Never have I seen my friend more completely taken aback than by
Sherlock Holmes.' That's how I come to know the name."
"And nought-respecting death (the last of paines)
inside.
To get my bread by carting muck;
London, where carriages are passing backward and forward during the whole
[Illustration: WHEN THE GRAY MASK FELL OFF, HER GOLDEN HAIR BROKE
to get them cheap too, for all good things go in threes."
were standing in a wonderfully pretty avenue of trees, all the leaves
and all her jewels. When she entered the royal hall, every one was
Juliet, I will lie with thee to night." ... It is plain Juliet. His mind
to my note on page 249 fol. in which I show that the drama may close on
something subtly wrong with the face, some coarseness of
one of them a hard-headed countryman, one a farrier, and one a
Through the gateway we passed into the avenue, where the wheels
inquest that I found it out. I've never breathed a word about it
knew to be in danger. If the letter should fall into Stapleton's
Or manage it to part these men with me.
went with hasty steps into the forest.
187. _Rais'd._ The reading of the 1st quarto, adopted by the majority of
you, go on as you are, and be Pope."
_3d Musician_: iv. 5(1). Whole no. 1.
30. _Fantasticoes._ Steevens quotes Dekker, _Old Fortunatus_: "I have
more natural. That at this time Juliet should think of "Romeo's dagger,
in Gothic civil architecture. The _loggia_, an open gallery, or high
criminal before ever we went to the west country.
And what love can do that dares love attempt;
pity that all this expense and trouble should be wasted in contriving to
48. _Prorogue._ See on ii. 2. 78 above.
dull, heavy, monotonous clang; and when the minute-hand made the
_Enter_ FRIAR JOHN
hour and a half. Then the two gentlemen passed us, walking, and
They came to the wood where the Fox had first met them, and, as it
to share the last mouthful with your children!" The woman, however,
paralyzed by the dreadful shape which had sprung out upon us from
was certain to turn out ill for them.
I give thee?"
197. _Pale as any clout._ A common simile of which Dowden cites examples
was, as far as he could see, but what he was doing he could not
and she at once resolved to act in accordance with her dream. She
_Nurse._                         Go, you cot-quean, go,
How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
"And then again, there is the 'friends of the C.C.H.' I should
Dwarf, just as big as my little finger. And before it stood a number of
frank, that in noting your fallacies I was occasionally guided
and help me to pick
_Capulet._ Young Romeo is it?
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
all."
have but to speak the word, and your head will lie at your feet."
while we started to walk to Merripit House.
House to the Grimpen Road, and is your natural way home."
was standing at the door. Her bulky figure in a shawl and skirt
draws a cart nor carries a sack."
Haslemere.
fallen into a light sleep I heard a key turn somewhere in a lock,
my weight at a critical moment."
for you will get nothing else."
every side and saw that something was moving and struggling in his
when he ventured upon insult, I vowed revenge.  You, who so well know
The feast was held with all manner of splendor. When it came to an
industriously until the flax came to an end, and the spool was quite
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple                      30
_Friar John._ Going to find a barefoot brother out,
windows at this end?"
forty hours," as Maginn does, we need rather to shorten the interval. We
suggests _gleeman_, one form of which in Anglo-Saxon was _gligman_, but
_Juliet._ Villain and he be many miles asunder.--                 80
kept any with me? Why should I try to shield him from the
when he heard her speak so kindly, he took heart, and told her how he
to the health of children who are confined for the rest of the day in a
And now was acknowledged the presence of the Red Death.  He had come
Live, and be prosperous; and farewell, good fellow.
"What did Grethel give you?"
Writ in the glassy margent of such books."
for show. Beware of taking the bird out of the common cage and putting
_Friar Laurence._ I will be brief, for my short date of breath
They ran up and saw, with horror, that the eagle had seized their old
until you have made your fresh arrangements, but you will
"Go through the midst of them straight into the castle. Go through all
'Tis nobody less than Guy Fawkes!
beggar that came to his doors.
older when you have found him than he was when
But when the proud Princess perceived that he was not her equal in
which he had shown, that he confided to my keeping that narrative
but not much, and went back to the great forest, and looked for the
When the old folk were asleep, Haensel again got up to go out and pick
it off my body."
as it is light, and then takes a walk into the fields to fetch her cows.
ecarte afterwards. The butler brought me my coffee into the
_Benvolio._ There lies that Tybalt.
thread, yard-measure and goose, in a press, and lived with his three
_Juliet._ Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
accustomed to the checkered light, a pannikin and a half-full
Where is my page?--Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.    [_Exit Page._
history of which by the learned Lord Clarendon I most
_adversary_, the fourth being an extra eleventh syllable. In iv. 3. 27
may fall on his head, and kill him."
In the evening, when she went home with her goat, she found a small
26. _Ache._ Spelt "ake" in the folio both here and in 49 below. This
glance, but her desire for immediate marriage is due, partially at
Rose-Red, do not be afraid. Wait, I will come with you."
"  5. (Thursday) Act V.
While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
chambers, upon occasion of this great _fete_; and it was his own guiding
entered the sitting-room a lady, who was sitting before a
The Frog enjoyed what he ate, but almost every mouthful she took,
alone. You must come with me."
saw that some one had been there, for everything was not in the same
The girl looked in; and as it was empty, she thought, "We can stay here
scrutiny must have had difficulty in detecting the cheat.  And yet all
'My heart is full of woe.' O, play me some merry
amazed at her great beauty, and the King said to his son, "This is the
"She gave me nothing, she came with me."
and live."
"_Blow, blow, thou gentle Wind, I say,
(such as the waggon-spokes and cover) before mentioning the chariot
"Alas, no," they answered, "the conditions are too hard! For six years
fisher with his pencil and the painter with his nets;
129-136. _Evermore ... body._ This long-drawn "conceit" is evidently
to be early on Wednesday morning, and the funeral took its place.
delicate food myself," said he, "in order that you may not have to wait
whiskers bristled like those of an angry cat.
tell. What power it demands! and yet what restraint!"
lazy thing, fetch some water, and cook something good for your brother.
72. _Straight at any news._ Capell explains it, "at such talk (of love
Remington typewriter, sprang up with a pleasant smile of welcome.
when you have finished, lay it on the sand. Then you will see what will
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
"Well, it was evident from what we have heard that Baskerville
hill and vale lay covered with snow, the woman made a frock of paper,
only the Golden Bird," said they; "we have won the Golden Horse also,
live. He gave him his kingdom for his own, and the Princess to wife.
But in battalions."
niche a low laugh that erected the hairs upon my head.  It was
own sake that I did it, and it was my appreciation of the danger
too confident in his own cleverness and imagine that he has
The Hound thought that a few bones with some meat would do him good too!
easy, little Fox, I will do you no harm."
had put on her gray gown.
standing before him.
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
straw into gold, you must die."
And the mouth of him who last told this story, is still warm.
beside her, took her spinning-wheel, and twisted the threads as nimbly
"You are a goose, who are always frightened," said the eldest. "Have
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love;
"Yes," said the man, "it suits me too. But I am frightfully hungry,
possession. He brought it down by the North Devon line and walked
had reached the extremity of the niche, and finding his progress
tail and ran quickly into the wood.
newcomer. We came shortly after Sir Charles settled. But my
The more I have, for both are infinite.
astonished and delighted, but his heart became only more greedy. He had
As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.
the fidelity of his new subjects, built a fortress, (called the White
service, and said he might carry wood and water, and rake the cinders
And so did I.--Well, we were born to die.--
to know if he had seen the hunt.  And the man, as the story
to pass the night there, for he feared that he might lose his way. When
"The better to see you with, my dear."
the same interpretation, adds, "But I still desire to cite an instance
"Indeed! And anyone else?"
His help to crave and my dear hap to tell.               [_Exit._
"Good day, Hans. What do you bring that is good?"
yet have been unable to save him! Where is this brute of a hound
silent loneliness, produce a momentary hallucination [of Tybalt's
"Yes," I said, "let us be gone."
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,
My friend and I were strolling on the moor when we heard a cry."
the fifty-two of Maginn. But this does not seem required by anything in
lonely and unfrequented marsh, and showed himself no more among his
with Tuscan columns.  This building was constructed under the
handsome, with a square black beard and pale, distinguished
Should hear his fierce roar thro' the valleys around;
the King's Son leapt up and said, "You are the true one, you are mine,
say to your goat:
night. The man said:
yet to mortal man. It's about poor Sir Charles's death."
"Alas," answered she, "thus shone the full moon when I played this air
end. The "death-mark'd love" of the children--love as pure as it was
sitting together in the twilight, I told Holmes of my
old woman was on all that she did. It seemed as if the flax in the room
way, we will do you a service for it another time."
"_Cudgel!
or that in Shakespeare's transfiguration of it his fancy and his
Visited twenty-three hotels as directed, but sorry to report
contains all the public facts?"
with the means of death was seized upon by his imagination with an
Baskerville Hall
she had nothing left but her shift. The huntsmen, however, did not let
boughs of the neighboring tree. She sprang up like a roe which has been
eyes for astonishment. They did not stop until all was done, and stood
double the cost of Blackfriars'.  Westminster Bridge was opened for
every one who saw her, was bound to love her.
If good, thou sham'st the music of sweet news
its counterpart--its exalted and glorified counterpart--in the
stones in his way with the activity of a mountain goat. A lucky
It chanced that they all found skilful masters, who taught them their
_Nurse._                         Marry, bachelor,
Named little Tom Dellow,
"Are you armed?" I asked.
remarked.
This spot was formerly known as a village named _Charing_, near London,
befallen her, but the Old Woman laughed kindly, and said, "I already
and all the modern editors have made more or less use of its readings.
in the garden behind our house, I shall die."
"Oh," said he to his little sister, "let me be off to the hunt, I
You sleeping safe, they bring you to vnrest.'" etc.
Out of the sack!_'
She went forth by long, long roads, until at last she came to the
fair volume are written in _the margin of his eyes_ as comments of
the Hall and continue the good work which has been so sadly
Sea, on the right bank are some tall reeds, count them, break off the
44. _Grey eye._ Here Malone and others make _grey_ = blue; while
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
Trusler, in his _Hogarth Moralized_, remarks: "The conceit of a cat's
We cannot without circumstance descry.
an instant, and out of the door. And when, in her astonishment, she got
men who have been disabled by age or accident, from serving any longer in
bright." But why should the poet call them _blue_ in the one place and
His outward dreery cheere bewrayde, his store of inward smart,
SCENE V.--3. _Sweet-heart._ Accented on the last syllable; as regularly
above.
wife as well."
the better off should we be for that? We could prove nothing
that, and whosoever was so much as touched by his cudgel fell to earth,
The servant could now easily prove his innocence. The King, to make
arme thrusts Mercutio in and flyes_;" which some modern eds. retain
Set thyself!_"
and Magog, supposed to be the figures of a Briton and a Saxon; but they
"Not more than a mile or two off."
"Well, Watson, what do you make of it?"
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
abundant vitality, in its brilliant imagery, its bold composition." All
up, and taking her with him, went to an inn, where he thought he would
121. _Ware._ Aware; but not to be printed as a contraction of that word.
_Swounded_ is the reading of the 1st quarto; the other early eds. have
general, is used only at Christmas-time, when a copy of verses is
It is supposed, the fair creature died,--
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
me, you shall be my Bride."
not listen to his words.
Baskerville Hall.
_Capulet._                       Will you tell me that?
I'll swear. There's a light in a woman's eyes that speaks louder
Now the six came to a town where the King had proclaimed that whosoever
The path led him into a wood, and there he saw two old ravens standing
exhaustion."
Salerno, printed at Naples in 1476; but Luigi da Porto, in his _La
_Montague._ I would thou wert so happy by thy stay
country. The King willingly gave what was asked, which was a mule laden
changed into Swans, and flew away over the forest.
punish with impunity.  A wrong is unredressed when retribution
"Why," said the woman, "you did catch him, and you let him go again. He
_Abram._ You lie.
introduction of gas, the principal streets are very brilliantly
Little Snow-White is alive and well,
tier.  The wall was now nearly upon a level with my breast.  I again
has thirteen arches, exclusive of a very small one at each end.  The
was already some way off, he still heard in the distance the noisy cry
"London's high column, pointing to the skies,
other injuries; and the pitch, tar, paint, glue, and I cannot tell how
_1 Musician._ No.
Witch, who lay in wait for children, and who had built the little bread
and a piece of his hairy coat was torn off. It seemed to Snow-White as
are taken, hide one of them there. I will soon find it."
darkness.
in happiness and peace.
Unto my cell.
to in _L. L. L._ v. 2. 885 and _M.N.D._ iii. 2. 461. The word is a
The other did not so.
feast was to be held, in which they would celebrate their wedding, but
_Juliet._                         Sweet, so would I;
"Hold, little master, not so fast,
"Have no fear," he replied, "the girl will not go astray; she is too
The lazy girl was willing to go, and thought that now the Gold-Rain
assure you, Sir Henry, that in a very few days the necessary
"Who knows whether that will ever happen?" thought the miller's
122. _Wit._ See on i. 4. 47 above.
better," etc.
maiden followed the coffin, weeping bitterly, and paid her the last
beautiful! ah, how beautiful that is!"
Before the threshold, however, it began to weave a carpet which was
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep.
purpose and the moral lesson that he meant to impress; but many of the
on these occasions was always prefaced by some speech in praise of the
Princess was named, went about the country, so that from time to time
crevice, and over every peak, have you not seen a white Dove flying?"
"We were all rather afraid that after the sad death of Sir
still cutting the lower edge of the moon, but its peak bore no
And may not wear them.--O, here comes my nurse,
associate engravers.  Sir Joshua Reynolds was the first president.  They
"And now, Dr. James Mortimer--"
gallants, full of courtship and of state," etc.); with the added idea of
I, with my soul full of vague fears, pursued my way to
The man's heart was heavy, and he thought "it would be better for you
sprang open. He walked in through the courtyard, and listened for the
way, the people who were looking on could see no more of the runner, it
of the fruit of the tree for us."
On this an old duck, which was hidden among the reeds, began to scream
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
acquaintance the Dwarf, and was going to carry him off.
a chair, and, holding up the light in his left hand, he curved
Italian evening."
"high-lone," which Herford, Dowden, and some others adopt. "It is an
say more than that."
give, or the fellow may have had some other reason for thinking
trees. "There ought to be some people living there, who can take me in
"Or more astonished, eh?"
and it was lightly come, lightly go, with him.
we live in a castle?"
So the two set forth together, and it was not long before the trusty
to call him, knew that the old man's heart was weak and that a
the wood, so that they will not find their way out again. There is no
some editors) is a poor substitution. See on i. 1. 216 above; and for
offended at what does not offend Juliet herself? for in the original
etc.
"Not for money or land, but for flesh and blood. Let me sleep again in
arrangements will have been made and he will be on his way to
"Now, Clayton, tell me all about the fare who came and watched
Baskerville, who arrives at Waterloo Station"--Dr. Mortimer looked
"It's gone!" said he. "The mire has him. Two in two days, and
And on the other side there sat one cald Mercutio.
perhaps, on the night of the convict hunt, when I was so
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
say he has many a time regretted it since. He was once a
leapt down from the tower. He escaped with his life, but the thorns
"What do I hear?" cried the tailor, and ran up-stairs and said to the
finally put an end to the romantic stories which have been
ground on cabbages and vegetables.
Juliet has been reared, the youthful Southern maiden, lives and breathes
of the fire-light that streamed upon the dark hangings through the
and _Much Ado_, v. 3. 25: "Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey."
daughter.
_Lady Capulet._ We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not;
He laughed at my bewildered expression. "There is a delightful
The girl, however, did as the Little Men had bidden her, swept away the
it. And he is waiting, this villain, beside that candle. By
put it down, and tell it to set itself, the most beautiful dishes stand
Was woe enough, if it had ended there;
going to put the common saddle upon him, he thought, "It will be a
effort to move. Lestrade thrust his brandy-flask between the
1. 112; and for the latter, iii. 5. 179 and v. 3. 75. Steevens remarks
girl lay down on the other, said her prayers, and fell asleep.
is explained by Bullein, in his _Bulwark of Defence against Sicknesse_,
[Illustration: A HEAVY SHOWER OF GOLD-RAIN FELL]
See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
_Nurse._                         Anon, anon!--
125. _The air._ The reading of the 4th and 5th quartos; the other early
The Old Woman would not tell the maiden what lay before her. "My stay
"Among the old houses on the hillside--the stone huts where the
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
arrest the whole household. Watson's reports are most
"It belongs to King Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would have
mark'd, and die he must."
"She is an invalid lady, sir. Her husband was once mayor of
"What business?" asked Sir Henry sharply. "It seems to me that
dingy and his trousers frayed. Though young, his long back was
the characters are distinctively Italian. "In total effect," as another
"Only preserve the love of God in your heart, and all will go well with
48. _Consort._ The word (with accent on first syllable) sometimes meant
"Alas, Wife," said the man, "he cannot make you Emperor. I may not say
_Much Ado_, iii. 3. 143, _Ham._ iii. 4. 184, etc.
60. _Swashing blow._ A dashing or smashing blow (Schmidt). Cf. Jonson,
the King's Daughter was already far in advance. He did not lose heart,
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
her eyes to look at you, they are shut for ever; it is too late to do as
some writer whom he followed, had in mind the churchyard of Saint Mary
had a good goat."
_Juliet._ A thousand times good night!                   [_Exit_.
"Because he so far forgot himself as to tell you a true piece of
*       *       *       *       *
_Juliet._ The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
a year, than there is at Smithfield for butchers' meat in the same
hesitated and then came back.
stays.
100. _Paly._ Cf. _Hen. V._ iv. chor. 8: "paly flames;" and 2 _Hen. VI._
It died away, and an absolute silence closed in upon us. We stood
Holmes looked eagerly round for another, but no empty one was in
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.--
need of thee!' and by the operation of the second
room full of straw, and said, "You must spin this, too, in the course
arabesque figures with unsuited limbs and appointments.  There were
side. Hark!"
who thought the roof tasted very nice, tore down a great piece of it.
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,
fell asleep: the eldest a bit of sugar; the second a little syrup; and
time the baronet opened his door and called for me. "Barrymore
editors. The antithesis of _make_ and _mar_ is a very common one in S.
The reader may be surprised that Brooke refers to having seen the story
in my sack there."
Then answered she, "So it seems to me. I fancy I hear my father's horn
[_Noise within._
as usual for his nocturnal walk, in the course of which he
_1 Musician._ What will you give us?
"Oh, I'll behave well. Good-bye, Mother."
for a long time, and when the children passed by it, they sang:
From the full collection, fifty-one stories suitable for children have
Henry, who was being dogged by this secret man. He had not
money, or a piece of valuable plate, which has greatly contributed to
He certainly seemed to be getting uncomfortably near the truth.
"Whither?"
buck of the Regency, stared down upon us and daunted us by their
would listen to nothing that he had to say, but scolded and reproached
and diving into one of the corners of the room he drew a brown
grief." That was perfectly natural.
To rid her from this second marriage,
said, "See, Little Red-Cap, how pretty the flowers are about here--why
"I hoped that you were going to see me through this business. The
23. _Welcome, gentlemen!_ Addressed to the masked friends of Romeo.
_Lady Capulet._ Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
what use to me are riches and prosperity?" he added, "if I am to lose
part any more than on hers. When he asks, "O, wilt thou leave me so
An ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
14. _Sweet water._ Perfumed water. Cf. _T.A._ ii. 4. 6: "call for sweet
shillings over in case of emergencies. Let me have a report by
The shoemaker, however, could not endure a joke. He pulled a face as if
And bid him come to take his last farewell.                       141
the Tower." Comic characters and those in low life generally speak in
believe, my sons, that the same Justice which punishes sin may
as soon as she had touched her sister, she remained sticking fast to
Watson," said he. "The records of your detective have reached us
succeeded in our object at a cost which both the specialist and
believe her words. He said, "She is too pious and good to do anything
at Sir Henry's request to show us exactly how everything occurred
from this point of view to look right down upon it, while from
Ma! Ma!_"
me inquire you out; what she bade me say, I will
Look you, she lov'd her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
of them suited her. One was too long, another too short, but at last
syllable men's names," etc.
not be as innocent as she would have me believe. For the moment I
is now fulfilled. Both Capulet and Montague, as they join hands in amity
Instead, however, of returning to the King, he conducted his troop by
Before the stork flew away he took his traveling bag off his back and
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
be a miller's daughter," thought he, "I could not find a richer wife in
however much it hurt him. But the time was long to him, and he looked
applies it to Romeo. We find _tercel_ in _T. and C._ iii. 2. 56: "The
"You will take this train to town, Cartwright. The moment you
proof, you may see the wound which your people gave me when they
So when the three servants came, nothing was there but a church, with
"Good!" he said.
Then he looked at her foot, and saw how the blood was streaming from
think about it, Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"
_Romeo._ I fear, too early; for my mind misgives
And two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes;"
overlooked?"
2.  A battle-axe for penetrating steel armour.
_Romeo._ Spak'st thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
flew up the track we heard scream after scream from Sir Henry and
gold enough. He had the miller's daughter taken into a still larger
considerable number of miles, and for several days together, without any
Father like salt.'
See also 50 above.
in what she was saying, while he listened intently, and once or
When the Nurse goes on the errand to Romeo (ii. 4), Peter carries her
impetuosity to a passion which had only depth, and enhancing dramatic
fine summer's evening, when the air is still and serene, and the light
strong, pugnacious face. He wore a ruddy-tinted tweed suit and
mendicant lunatic from Bethlehem Hospital, London, came to be a cant
Of his profession, straight a house he fyndeth out,
So far from sounding and discovery,
were set free, and the old house in the wood was changed back again
indexed list of cases."
Holmes, that if my friend here had not proposed coming round to
"No, it is not light," answered the Count, and pulled a rueful
have fairly earned your wages, and they shall not be wanting."
and let her down into the cellar.
_opposition_, which word has metrically five syllables. In _disobedient_
poet ever wrote, is the dreadful one where Romeo, in the very height of
in _T. of S._ iv. 1. 136: "And Gabriel's pumps were all unpink'd i' the
_Sampson._ A dog of that house shall move me to
punctual to their appointment, for the clock had just struck ten
_Tybalt._ What, drawn and talk of peace! I hate the word,
Character set encoding: UTF-8
Which, well thou know'st, is cross and full of sin.
A very useful set of men are these: they remove the dust and dirt from
of enjoyment. He saw the shoemaker coming toward him from the other
_Friar Laurence._ Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
day outside!"
Then said the mother, "Three-Eyes, do you climb up. You with your three
Cover the table with something to eat!_"
the point of my revolver if necessary, who he was and why he had
as in ii. 3, and Juliet had met him there. Very likely S. at first wrote
One nickname for her purblind son and heir,
forget Romeo and marry Paris; and the moment which unveils to Juliet the
once more, but if this happens the third time, then the well will be
30: "As he lay along Under an oak;" _J.C._ iii. 1. 115: "That now on
They pushed her about, and threw old clothes to her, and gave her
the plays. See i. 1. 61, 69, 162, 163, 164, 198, etc.
forest to fetch wood." She gave each a little piece of bread, and said,
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,                        80
noticed that it was the sparrows who were chattering together, and
crowd of birds, who were tearing a piece of cloth with their beaks and
make an apology for his intrusion. This was a custom observed by those
152. _Suit._ The reading of 4th ("sute") and 5th quartos; the other
might have dreamt.
_Romeo._ Commend me to thy lady.
for the Golden Lily suddenly rose up and blossomed out again."
other instance of the word in S.
false sisters came and wanted to get into favor with Ash-Maiden and
Their sugred tongues and power attractive beuty
step by step, to her chair. There he sat still and cried, "Lift me up
walked he glanced continually over either shoulder, like a man
all three shook hands, and I saw at once from the reverential way
And many curious things beside
ideas, from our leaving the gallery until we found ourselves at
"'_Bring the rogue here to me!_'
continued. "Step out. No one will take the bundle off again."
Then the mother said to One-Eye, "Climb up, my Child, and gather some
return he had given its liberty.
Such rude contempt they merit less,
[Illustration]
was like to be done upon the moorlands.  Everything was now
loggerhead!" So _logger-headed_; as in _T. of S._ iv. 1. 128: "You
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,                   10
All at once, the King's Son entered, clothed in velvet and silk,
For a long time, she did not know that she had had brothers. Her
kitchen burned up and flickered and cooked the meat. The joint began to
"Put it in my pocket."
kissed her.
him, and made him a low curtsey. He looked at her, said nothing, and
And when they got into the kitchen, Ash-Maiden lay there amongst the
_Lady Capulet._ The people in the street cry Romeo,
Da Porto and Paynter and Brooke, in like manner, refer to the
Southampton this morning. Now, Mr. Holmes, what would you advise
The father said, "Yes, if I can get it, you shall have it," kissed all
one hundred guineas for his recovery; and the bills were the means of his
influence over her which may have been love or may have been
King faithfully. But when the war came to an end he could serve no
editors make bad verse of it.
This lasted two days, but on the third the forest would not come to an
Northumberland Hotel. His wife had some inkling of his plans; but
floated away with the water without her observing it, so great was her
the others, and royal garments were put upon him.
"The original hound was material enough to tug a man's throat
be to be quit of it all on the day that Sir Henry's new servants
close by, else it will go ill with you."
Three-Eyes? You are a good caretaker! Come, we will go home."
Both me and myne I will all whole to you betake:
THE METRE OF THE PLAY.--It should be understood at the outset that
temper'd by himself;" _Cymb._ v. 250: "To temper poisons for her," etc.
"Strikes his poinado at a button's breadth." Staunton cites George
Holmes to the porter. "A lawyer, is he not, grey-headed, and
Thrushbeard!
away the King, and slain all the inhabitants. They wandered forth to
Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel," was printed in rough
"There was no possible indication that we intended to go to this
But when he fell down, he was no Frog but a King's Son with beautiful
I say:
at what could have brought this highly educated man and this
lamentations over her, the 1st quarto gives the direction, "_They all
"Really, Watson, you excel yourself," said Holmes, pushing back
takes him his food."
would promise for three months to let the matter rest and to be
Mother Holle said, "I am pleased that you long for your home again. You
is as bright and clear as crystal; you shall sit beside it, and take
with starting hackles and staring eyes, gazing down the
Little Snow-White is alive and well,
45. _We waste_, etc. The quartos have "We waste our lights in vaine,
having eaten or drunk. The father brought out his patches, and began to
You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
And when the King came in the morning, and found all as he had wished,
The King had a son, eight years old, who one day was playing in the
Which you mistaking offer up to joy.
Then she went to the chamber and called, "Come out, my little Daughter."
Suddenly the Wise Woman once more stood by her side, and said,
by fast" (see also 2 _Hen. VI._ iii. 1. 248 and 3 _Hen. VI._ i. 1. 268);
giving him a considerable part of his old wardrobe, the London
made the discovery, sent Perkins the groom on horseback to me,
in any conflagration since the great fire in 1666.  It was estimated that
them one after another by name, but no one answered. At last, when she
"The object is to avoid a public scandal. It is better that I
is able to make his own fortune and to bring it back with him
did not trust it. Had he done so, his fate would not have been so
home but she did not speak a single word the whole way.
after seven days when he saw how little he had done, and how all his
150. _Sun._ The early eds. all have "same." The emendation is due to
I have been feasting with mine enemy,
unhappy maid where she had fallen, dead of fear and of
And when he had sat there a while, a cloud floated toward him,
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead.
Two-Eyes, are you sleeping?_"
for the poor children, all the same," said the man.
no leaf was stirring. Then said the man, "I know not what is driving
"well-behaved."
And art thou chang'd? pronounce this sentence then:
again."
until I knew.
Not long afterward, there was another famine in all parts, and
sit down. They asked, "Where have you come from, and whither are you
_Benvolio._ Why, what is Tybalt?
a white cloth, was standing there, and on it was a plate with a knife
The Twelve Princesses, in their chamber, laughed, and the eldest said,
Which once untangled much misfortune bodes.
for me, and she, too--she was happy when she was with me, and that
The maiden cut the toe off, forced the foot into the shoe, swallowed
Death on the Moor
_Nurse._ A man, young lady! lady, such a man
But for the sunset of my brother's son
"Yes; Sir Charles was very fond of talking about the provisions
of their pupils.
And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,                    100
the sun. Let me, therefore, return to the facts concerning Sir
herself lose and ran away, and became the Bride of Hans.
the lighted window. The farther wall of the orchard was already
Hans takes Grethel, ties her to a rope, leads her to the rack, and
The Gold Fish continued, "That shall be taken care of. There will be a
ever been so fatal, or so hideous.  Blood was its Avatar and its
counsel were in the end vanquished and made friends by pity." So
This speech is a most admirable composition, full of striking good
Poor Sir Charles was also an admirable companion. We knew him
where he seemed to have waited, I remarked the change in the
to 1591 or 1592, proves conclusively that parts of _Romeo and Juliet_
ABRAM, servant to Montague.
old bench? O, their _bons_, their _bons!_
the thorn-hedge, it was nothing but large and beautiful flowers, which
superfluous. In i. 1. 64 the third syllable of _Benvolio_, and in line
girl went out with your dinner, and must have lost herself, but she is
"I cannot say anything definite, for I do not know anything
And go, Sir Paris;--every one prepare
20.  The Water-cress Girl,
but I will be Pope too. Go to the Flounder."
138. _She will none._ Cf. _M.N.D._ iii. 2. 169: "Lysander, keep thy
to a threat.  _At length_ I would be avenged; this was a point
whence comes the creature, who can't speak? She is not worthy of a
serving-creature.
roses blossomed on both sides of it. And on a golden ground in the
walk home."
marry you."
to say that if he finds the pocketbook which I have dropped he is
One alone amongst them, the green plover, was opposed to this. He had
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
dot against the dull green and grey.
the mother said, "Just sit there, you Children, and when you are tired
then, after the lapse of sixty minutes, (which embrace three thousand
34. _Afore me._ "By my life, by my soul" (Schmidt). Cf. _Per._ ii. 1.
asked twice, but drew near, pulled out their knives and attacked it
"You are an educated man. You don't believe such nonsense as
repeat some of it twice before he was satisfied.
"Now, you will be quiet, odious Frog," said she.
Dr. Mortimer started violently. "Followed! By whom?"
"Having first endangered it. Are you strong enough to stand?"
And when they got home, Two-Eyes again did not eat, and Three-Eyes said
This letter he early bid me give his father,
The King, however, had a wicked mother, who was dissatisfied with his
And take the table quite away!_'
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
The light and careless livery that it wears,
outlaws, and _runagates_, be aiders and partakers of this feate and
in my mind. Intense mental concentration has a curious way of
had three iron bands laid round his heart, lest it should burst with
_Friar Laurence._ Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
Therefore use none; let Romeo hence in haste,
"A miller, dear Father," he answered.
_Romeo._                         Tush, thou art deceiv'd;
_Enter_ BENVOLIO
were black," etc.
When it was midday, they saw a beautiful Snow-White Bird sitting on a
58.  The Sedan Chair.
and casting his net, that he drew out a fish entirely of gold.
And soon you might meet
see my beloved, only to lose him again?"
and took by preference a roundabout way. And when a father with his
SCENE I.--1. _Carry coals._ "Endure affronts" (Johnson). According to
151. _Thank me no thankings_, etc. Cf. _Rich. II._ ii. 3. 87: "Grace me
blowing from the south, directed the flames towards Ratcliffe High
Stapleton had abandoned the chase and came back to us breathing
to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
knife and put out his left eye. Then he gave him a bit of bread to eat,
182. _Loving-jealous._ Compound adjectives are much used by S. Cf. i. 1.
the language of animals!
This trick may chance to scathe you,--I know what.
there," she thought, "I may as well be there too," and ran to them. But
sitting all round it, and had thrust their heads under their wings and
And 'twixt them rushes, underneath whose arm                     170
The two children, therefore, got up, dressed themselves quickly, and
Before he went to sleep, he looked round on all the four sides, and
Will serue, I vnder take, in lesse than halfe an howre
that we have been mourning over you as having broken your neck?"
and more has been written about it than would fill a volume like this.
been the relaxation of this complex and dangerous man. In the
his own. The fencing-master got many a blow, but he only bit his lip,
account of a deadly terror that had seized upon all.  He bore aloft a
together, and the creature gave a hideous howl, which showed that
Henry this morning, and we have made a plan of campaign founded
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
kept coming back to it that this was a place of danger, and that
The man hesitated and said, "That might be my youngest daughter, she
A courtier that eche where was highly had in pryce:
"I suppose it _is_ pretty thick, now that you mention it."
and seated herself at her table, and ate and drank until she was
avowal of that love--an ideal love in which passion and purity are
legend of the wicked Hugo is supposed to have had its origin. It
return alive. By George, there is another of those miserable
S.
"Holmes!" I cried--"Holmes!"
you straight!" For the allusion to _five wits_ see on i. 4. 47 above.
Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
an impression might easily have been erroneous. How could I
more, but you shall not have it for nothing. I shall put out your other
6. _Star-cross'd._ For the astrological allusion, cf. i. 4. 104, v. 1.
188. _Two may keep counsel._ That is, keep a secret. Cf. _T.A._ iv. 2.
Then the woman cried joyfully, "What more can you want, my dear?" and
continually fixed upon it during supper. It was not until later,
Did murther her, as that name's cursed hand
confused the _Leeds Mercury_ with the _Western Morning News_. But
"the teen I have turn'd you to;" _L. L. L._ iv. 3. 164: "Of sighs and
"Only be quiet," answered the old woman, and comforted her by saying,
will come to a village in which stand two inns opposite to one another.
_Juliet._ Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
"Silly Goose," said the Old Woman; "the door is big enough. Just look,
'It might interest you to know that you have been driving Mr.
in _M. of V._ iii. 2. 20: "And so, though yours, not yours. Prove it
miller's house. All that he undertook succeeded; it was as if presses
Joringel could neither speak nor move from the spot. The Nightingale
sang "_jug, jug, jug!_"
the thought of his immolation.
"Well, give her that ring and therewithal
To describe the great variety there sold, would exceed all bounds; we
at last exactly how I stood. The case had been considerably
But the Queen-Bee came out, threatened him and said, "If you touch my
the country was hunting in the forest, and his huntsmen came to the
_Will you beat your lover dead?_"
but only soften it, she said, "It shall not be death, but a deep sleep
Red-Cap.
_Enter_ CAPULET, PARIS, _and_ Servant
put on my wedding-clothes and take my place. A greater honor than that
from whom you have it, or you will lose it all again!"
"Through sunny May, through sultry June,
said nothing and went away into the forest. And when they looked round,
through thorns, and the wild beasts ran past her, but did her no harm.
imagined," said Dr. Mortimer, gazing at my friend in amazement.
When wisps of straw depend upon the twine
once, for the table will give them all they require."
"And what is your theory of this poor fellow's death?"
tears, cf. _A.W._ i. 1. 55, _T.N._ i. 1. 30, _R. of L._ 796, _L.C._ 18,
an easy gentleman to describe. I'd put him at forty years of age,
could be no doubt about the beetling forehead, the sunken animal
Each, therefore, bought his own bread. And then they tried their luck
"Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only stock and store,
"I will come," said I.
Ma! Ma!_"
_Sampson._ Gregory, on my word, we'll not carry
Again and once again, while they were on their way, something cracked;
"How did you know that?"
I drew aside my curtains before I went to bed and looked out from
could well remember the scorn which the theories of the reasoner
"You know that there is another man then?"
Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
everything. But where could such a hound lie concealed, where did
womanhood, when she drinks the potion that is to consign her to the
21. _Deny._ Refuse. Cf. _L. L. L._ v. 2. 228: "If you deny to dance;" _T.
_A PEEP INTO_
in order that they might do nothing secretly or go away to some other
back where he could do no harm. With his brutal and violent
childish, cf. _A.Y.L._ iii. 5. 110, _M.W._ i. 4. 14, etc.
Being one too many by my weary self,
He said to her kindly, "Do not be afraid, I and the fiddler who has
[They fight.
sets itself, and the Gold-Ass, the dance shall begin afresh."
The room had been fashioned into a small museum, and the walls
_Nurse._ [_Within_] Madam!
his human form again. So the little sister and little brother lived
With manly courage arme thy selfe from heele vnto the head;
'Tis the wind and nothing more.
the next sentence she reverts to her own position.
132. _Pretty._ Some of the German critics are troubled by _pretty_,
which raised the hair upon the heads of these three
"Selden found out that he has got a lad who works for him and
"God's bread! it makes me mad! Day, night, late, early,
Were of an age; well, Susan is with God,
_Enter_ Citizens, _etc_.
What more amendes, or cruell wreke desyrest thou
cites Barclay, _Ship of Fools_, 1578:--
"It is extraordinary how credulous the peasants are about here!
Your high displeasure. All this, uttered
has swallowed down for his supper, can be still alive?"
Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
Before the sun has risen high,
Take us across on thy back so white._"
the moor was drifting closer and closer to the house. Already the
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
it. Then her hunger grew so great that she did not know what to do, for
To seek him here that means not to be found.           [_Exeunt._
Whilst ringing of his bell:
_Nurse._ O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
been published; and, in another account of him, {9} it is shortly
the more I thought of the lady's face and of her manner the more
modifications, the most important of which are as follows:--
_Juliet._ What must be shall be.
the runner lying there asleep, she was glad and said, "My enemy is
thus for some time, he said, "Ah, Wife, be content, now that you are
as much gold as it could carry.
occur here and there; as in the inscriptions on the caskets in _M. of
made any use of it. That he followed Brooke's poem rather than Paynter's
your adversary." The rhythm is complete with the third syllable of
He again took my arm, and we proceeded.
189. _Ghostly._ Spiritual; as in ii. 3. 45, ii. 6. 21, and iii. 3. 49
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed                           200
front of me," said he. "But, tell me, Watson, what do you make of
May stand in number, though in reckoning none.
Then the soldier did not know how to earn a living, went away greatly
came with their hoes from the fields. The parson called out to them
"Where are you going?" said Rose-Red; "you surely don't want to go into
all the features of the face, was besprinkled with the scarlet horror.
ringed with fire. I placed my hand upon the glowing muzzle, and
cried, "Oh, what a clever Elsie!" and sat down, and likewise wept with
"The Stapletons then went down to Devonshire, whither they were
my burthen for me. Only think, he even took me on his back when I was
Direct my sail!--On, lusty gentlemen.                            110
shadow has departed and will not return. We must see what further
Holmes cast a swift glance of triumph at me. "Oh, he mentioned
come, and I will weave a ladder with it. When that is ready I will
let herself be wedded to the fiddler on the spot.
His plan of campaign was beginning to be evident. He would use
much as let me touch the tips of her fingers."
The cabman scratched his head. "Well, he wasn't altogether such
way, but came into her hand of their own accord, so that she could
the money amongst them.
_Nurse._ Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
down to the spot where the animal had been and look around for
poor_ in being subject to the lot of humanity, that _her store_, or
_Romeo._ Here's goodly gear!
Cartwright, there are the names of twenty-three hotels here, all
8.  A lance, which the Spaniards vauntingly said was for bleeding the
in other passages and other writers of the time.
strongest men to carry it, but the strong one snatched it up in one
Through your city as I go,
had left the children in the forest. The woman, however, was dead.
"Well, what does she want, now?" said the Flounder.
am conscious always of power and design. When our friends left I
After the prompter, for our entrance.
"To London?"
Hall rose above the trees. They were the only signs of human life
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
fancies." Castles and other figures were often made of marchpane, to
"I assure you that I am simply here upon a visit to my friend,
sewed him up again in the greatest haste; so that he was not aware of
critical turn, it is he.  He will tell me--"
grasshopper jumping toward the water, as if it were going to leap in.
out by the post-mortem examination, which showed
the baronet's death to the curse of his family, as they certainly
tame Pigeons, you Turtledoves, and all you birds beneath the sky, come
of 480 feet long, by 107 feet wide.  The first stone was laid on the 25th
31. _Tutor me from._ Teach me to avoid.
They were as good and happy, as busy and cheerful as ever two children
deep and subtle scheming which seemed to be weaving an invisible
possessives ending in a sibilant, as _balance_, _horse_ (for _horses_
173. _Attach._ Arrest; as in _C. of E._ iv. 1. 6, 73, iv. 4. 6, _Rich.
place. And yet I can find my way to the very heart of it and
But the King's Daughter was humble, said nothing, and mounted her horse
the Cudgel springs out and leads any one, who means ill by me, a weary
_Capulet._ Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
[Picture: Watering the streets]
healing bruises, cf. _L. L. L._ iii. 1. 74:--
_Romeo._ I have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes;
18. _For thou_, etc. "Indeed, the whole of this speech is imagination
freed from their poverty and hunger, and ate sweet Porridge as often as
he said, "She is my partner."
of the strange new cheerfulness and hopefulness he feels--a reaction
With ravishing division, to her lute."
Of disobedient opposition
_Enter_ ABRAM _and_ BALTHASAR
in our net as helpless as one of his own butterflies. A pin, a
very ancient. Cicero mentions it in his _De Divinatione_. Melton, in his
The extract from my private diary which forms the last chapter
"Drink," I said, presenting him the wine.
had no key to the Glass Mountain. The good little sister took a knife,
These orders were sufficient, I well knew, to insure their immediate
They traveled therefore onward together, and always set one foot before
"Here is a nut for you, when you are above the centre of the sea, let
The fourth had to carry in a covered dish. In it were crabs.
Kneller, I'll swear, that lady in the blue silk over yonder, and
grotesque.  There were much glare and glitter and piquancy and
treacherous mire, when I heard the sound of steps and, turning
She likewise sent her maid-in-waiting, who was to ride with her, and
billiard-room and smoke a cigarette.
is exalted?"
This is no less distinctly expressed in the last speeches of the play.
"Have you ever met him?"
represented as debating of what colour a beauty's eyes shall be. Mars
in torrents. But he only flourished his sword faster and faster, and
In this so sudden business.
SCENE V. _Juliet's Chamber_
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
I therefore spent the day at my club and did not return to Baker
She thanked the Moon, and went on until the Night Wind came up and blew
"Because the ash had twice dropped from his cigar."
Stapleton looked at me with a curious expression in his face.
To have her match'd; and having now provided
Then a poor man met her, who said, "Ah, give me something to eat, I am
1584: "Thou art very pleasant and full of thy roperye." Cf.
When he drew near the battle-field, a great part of the King's men
pleasure to the children. Rie Cramer's little black and white headings
quibble in _The Revenger's Tragedy_, 1608, where Vindice dresses up a
realise that that moan had been the passing of his soul. Not a
"I am giving you some information now, in return for all that you
Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
_Sew me the seam,
On the third day, when the parents and sisters had gone away,
responsibility from my shoulders.
Nameless here for evermore.
which is laid in Siena, appears in a collection of novels by Masuccio di
with all its candles and torches came back from church and passed by
the child down again, and covered it with the little quilt. And she did
"But can you not protect me?" asked the little sister.
are once more turned into Swans."
none other than Mr. Frankland, who was standing, grey-whiskered
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
Nor threatning of the prince, ne mynd of murthers donne
will not open the door," cried they; "you are not our mother. She has
I know not how to tell thee who I am.
A la stoccata carries it away.--                        [_Draws._
On the whole I incline to the latter view, since the matter was
is!"
When it was midnight, two pretty tiny naked Little Men came, sat down
And bound it up again._"
'keep away' and 'from the' are cut out in one piece."
113. _My very friend._ Cf. _T.G. of V._ iii. 2. 41: "his very friend;"
[Picture: Nosegays]
was no watch in the old Italian cities; but, however that may have been,
route in search of the Amontillado.  We passed through a range of low
"Well, I couldn't be sure of that, but I dare say my fare knew
in perfect happiness.
In the middle of the fields, the parson met them, and when he saw the
Till then, adieu, and keep this holy kiss.               [_Exit._
ridicules the translation of Seneca's _Tragedies_ (1581); but it is in
_Balthasar_: v. 1(11), 3(21). Whole no. 32.
and we cannot doubt that the boots or chamber-maid of the hotel
"What do you mean, then?"
many voices, all raised at one moment to the praise of their great
more, go to your chamber, take the skin off your face, and put on the
_Friar Laurence._ O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
And so she thought and thought again how she might kill her, for so
he dies five years later.
word, and boiled or roasted meat every day.
Whose pages in theyr hand doe beare, two toorches light before.
noticed only by children.  But even in the present time, some idle people
When she opened it, lo! there stood cakes, meat, fruit, wine.
"She has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'll touch."
She escaped from him, however, and sprang into the pigeon-house. The
is accented on the first syllable because before the noun.
Before thy foule words name sir-reverence,
Within this three hours will fair Juliet wake.
Mountain, where the precious stones grow. I long for them so much that
"I do not think that it is likely."
_Paris._ Poor soul, thy face is much abus'd with tears.
heard it, and you will see that if there was a plot it was not
"Come home, then," said the youth, and led her into the stable, and
"What did you take her?"
and walking while we can.
can't live in peace here."
SCENE VI.--9. _These violent delights_, etc. Malone compares _R. of L._
until then guard your charge as closely as ever a fond mother
up again into daylight." He bade him grasp his tail and keep tight hold
Mortimer's surmise should be correct, and we are dealing with
has been a presentation. We believe there has been a change from
out West. Among other things I bought these brown boots--gave six
feeble one."
weave, but the tough willows wounded her delicate hands.
So he stood and looked at her, and it was just as if he was looking at
Art_ (American ed. 1881); Hudson's _Life, Art, and Characters of
And one night, when everything was ready, they laid their presents,
A sleeping potion, which so took effect
free when you were in an Iron Stove in the wild forest. I sought you,
"_Nettle-plant, Nettle-plant,
"Who'll buy my fine flounders, and oysters who'll buy?"
Thereupon she closed her eyes and departed.
could not have followed us. A stranger then is still dogging us,
"The man was elderly and infirm. We can understand his taking an
I would adventure."
Watson!"
"'_Cudgel!
wayward was thy infancy."
of a doubtful character, the internal evidence confirms the opinion that
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath.
apples, and nuts. Afterward she covered two pretty little beds with
manner.
amusement. Sometimes he will shut up a right of way and defy the
38. _Simple._ Silly; as often. Cf. iii. 1. 35 below, and _simpleness_ in
"I will do my best."
96. _Enter Peter._ From the quartos we learn that William Kempe played
THE END.
their way and did their business in the town.
"But not actually raining?"
County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the
influence which is at work around us. There is the death of the
were no longer so lonely. Henceforth they every day drove their flocks
needed by her, for she had to cross a high Glass Mountain, and go
posture of his fall.  And the life of the ebony clock went out with
_Nurse._ Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
leaf, have you not seen a white Dove flying?"
"No doubt. There only remains one difficulty. If Stapleton came
The man kept silence for a short time, but at last she made him so
Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take
Which she hath prais'd him with above compare
And as soon as she was burnt the Roe changed his shape, and received
the maiden said:
There was once on a time, a soldier who for many years had served the
frequently happens in a frost, so that the turn-cock is obliged to put a
"Ah, Wife," said the man, "the cottage is quite good enough. Why should
"No, I confess that I see no connection."
163. _Airy tongue._ Cf. Milton, _Comus_, 208: "And airy tongues, that
wing. But her finger and hand remained sticking fast to it.
{75}  In the year 1813, one of the turn-cocks in Giltspur Street, found a
Then she told them that the wicked Queen had wished to have her
once more, and asked him likewise what he had learned in foreign parts.
a kind of large, flat boats,) and carried in them to the different wharfs
quality of mercy is not strain'd" (that is, excludes the idea of force
Then the little one went and brought the box. After this they gave her
Misshapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
The smell of the delicious dishes which were being taken in and out
act v.--not even by the "two days buried" of v. 3. 176, for Thursday
finished the work, he carried the scythe, whetstone, and hay to the
little plates and glasses. Then said one after the other, "Who has
When they were all ready, the eldest then went to her bed and tapped it.
explanations for its absence. Between us we soon supplied his
in 1600, principally for the purpose of procuring spices at a cheap rate,
sank back into a melancholy, throbbing murmur once again.
years younger."
nautical principle that the pilot is the master of the ship after he
What a picture of winter!  The water in the leaden pipes, leading from
several parts.  Henry, Earl of Pembroke, promoted the erection of this
And verily when he had walked about a hundred paces, he heard in the
When I think that the wild beasts have devoured her, I know not how to
So my little basket hung;
85. _Moved._ That is, "mov'd to wrath" (_T.A._ i. 1. 419). Cf. _L. L. L._
174. _So brief to part._ To part so soon.
Hercules himself, who was renowned for killing a monster that had but
was astonished at the great assemblage. "What, what, what is going to
"If you had told us of your own free will it would have been a
CITY SCENES.
"Yes," replied Two-Eyes, "that I certainly shall be able to do, for the
in the course of years. That is where the rare plants and the
Countryman, it is a fine day. Ah! you wonder that I should drag grass
figuratively as spring, is really midsummer. The time is definitely
foes become lovers--not foolish, rash, imprudent lovers, not victims of
them.
been capable of jealousy, and when he saw the baronet paying
trouble. The waiting-maid, however, had seen it, and she rejoiced to
"I bring nothing, I want to have something given me."
Sir Charles alive, and the first to dog the new heir when he
what will you give me if I bring your plaything up again?"
sound broke the heavy silence of the windless night.
_Romeo._ A torch for me; let wantons light of heart
No blood is in the shoe!
And then at last I heard him. Far away came the sharp clink of a
_Capulet._ How canst thou try them so?
fights as you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance,
The sons were well content with this, and the eldest determined to be a
late to wait upon her now, for she no longer requires your assistance!
little piece of bread; and, as they heard the strokes of the wood-axe,
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
other Winds; perhaps they have seen it."
_Juliet._ Can heaven be so envious?
with such a superstition, and Mortimer also, but if I have one
She gave the handkerchief to her daughter and said, "Dear Child,
The man, like Mrs. Stapleton herself, spoke good English, but
until they looked like the huge corroding fangs of some monstrous
a halfpenny into them, like the gentleman in the picture.
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;                  80
marriage, you say?"
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
muffled peal more solemnly emphatic than any which reaches _their_ ears
The King saw plainly that her heart was beating violently, and said,
prose in the later plays, as Dowden intimates, but in the very earliest
them across a heath upon which huge pieces of rock lay strewn about.
106. _Still._ Constantly, always; as very often. Cf. 270 below.
that?" said I. "What do you think is the cause of so strange a
_pantry_ (Fr. _paneterie_, from _pain_), the place where bread is kept,
Which offer'd five guineas reward!
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love.
green-scummed pits and foul quagmires which barred the way to the
[Illustration: Capulet's Garden]
"Not here," answered the Old Woman, "when we have arrived at our
"Who is he, then?"
College of Surgeons."
London?"
rising howl, and then the sad moan in which it died away. Again
which will be of most service to you in helping you to your
respectable person was of the same blood as one of the most
flow.
the Flounder cannot make you! I assure you he cannot."
Then said Lina, "Do you become a rose-tree, and I the rose upon it."
Yes, there in quiet you may sit,
"Yes, but my wife, Grethe, too," said he, and he seated himself with
the craggy hills around us, and the yellow speck of light burning
Then the maiden said, "I do not know, but I have been so sorrowful and
So they took a sorrowful leave of each other. The Princess put the
He took her by the hand and led her to church. On the way was a
frequent playing upon words, and the lyrical character of many passages
When a sly cunning dame,
_Friar Laurence._ How long hath he been there?
Black and portentous must this humour prove,
Hans comes to Grethel. "Good day, Grethel."
a part of the way, the King's Son heard a cracking behind him as if
On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
royalty.
83. _As that vast shore_, etc. Possibly suggested, as some have thought,
"Ah," answered Redskin, "a fierce beast is in my cave and stared at me
The man was still half asleep, but he was so horrified that he fell out
_Juliet._ How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
surrounded the stunted orchard. Creeping in its shadow I reached
His finger hurt him again, and he passed it over his head, and then
22. _Them._ S. makes _news_ both singular and plural. For the latter,
The sixth, "Who has been cutting with my knife?"
"He could not hope to frighten Sir Henry to death as he had done
25.  The Royal Exchange.
126. _Catling._ A small string of _catgut_. Cf. _T. and C._ iii. 3. 306:
point which we now have to decide, Sir Henry, is whether it is or
hear from us again."
dead bird, swallow it whole, and every morning early, when you get up,
Together with the terror of the place,--
And while she was looking at him, and becoming aware that he was young
there, and wept.
might die of cold."
"God gi' Good-e'en" in the 4th folio. This salutation was used as soon
thought to himself, "I will take him home, and bring him up with my
"And almost."
resting a moment, sometimes in silence, sometimes uttering a loud cry,
_Peter._ Musicians, O musicians, 'Heart's ease,
intent. Our visitor readjusted his glasses and began:
between me and my distresses" (Johnson).
what it all means, Watson, and I'll owe you more than ever I can
"Dear Father," said he, "I have become a turner."
cut to pieces!"
tell them what they are dying to know; but nothing would induce
no longer burning in their house, and all appeared quiet.
able to breathe.
out." See also _M. of V._ v. 1. 220 and _Sonn._ 21. 12.
and collect letters and newspapers in the several parts of the town, so
convict upon the moor. There is strong reason now to believe that
that two men were going to be hanged. As he came nearer to the place
you are all on the wrong side of the law in this matter. I am not
"Good-bye, Hans."
calling upon your acquaintance, Mrs. Laura Lyons."
and yet you are alive. You have been walking for some months very
_Enter_ CAPULET, _with_ JULIET _and others of his house_, _meeting the_
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument
served for seven years.
To trouble and disturb the king and us?"
King's Son went into the chamber where the Golden Bird was shut up in
he [Laurence] is no unapt representative of this distinguished order in
SCENE I.--3. _And I am nothing slow to slack his haste._ Paris here
standing by the door he seized her by the hand, and would have danced
unhappily a hair fell down into the well. He took it quickly out, but
Can I demand.
213. _That when she dies_, etc. "_She is rich in beauty_, and _only
_Cymb._ iii. 2. 63, etc.
30. _Inherit._ Possess; as in _Temp._ iv. 1. 154, _Rich. II._ ii. 1. 83,
were green as leeks." Cf. _The Two Noble Kinsmen_, v. 1: "With that rare
"And then after you had sent the letter he dissuaded you from
After Hans had had her some time, he said, "Wife, I am going out to
dress she was, indeed, a strange apparition upon a lonely
What is your will?
"That's ill done, Hans, you should have put the knife in your pocket."
of our present text were written as late as 1596-1598, and possibly that
Eke many certaine signes of thinges betyde of olde,
_Capulet._ Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
_Mercutio._ The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting
for which he has been seeking. I am much mistaken if it does not
hardly a day has passed that he has not called at the Hall to see
whether he has got through the meshes."
came in, and went to the beds, both the children were gone.
"Well, either that boot comes back before sundown or I'll see the
of the mystery.
she screamed so loudly for help, that the King's Son heard her voice,
should fare ill with her.
So they went in, and there was a small porch, and a pretty little
recent. This is the _Devon County Chronicle_ of May 14th of this
something had broken. So he turned round and cried:
[iii. 1. 64 fol.] as softened by love, and now it is doubled by love and
"So you are a miller's daughter! Then go your way at once. Let the
building was there, and not one nail in the wall or tile of the roof
palace, is a common feature in Palladian architecture, and would also be
Sir Charles, who had conceived a friendship for him, made him the
"Footprints?"
For some time, they were alone like this in the wilderness. But it
Then she said to the goose-girl, "Go into the house, my little
"He grazed his cattle on these slopes, and he learned to dig for
iii. 5. 221, 227 below.
"Yes, I saw you then."
Then just as he was going to fire at him, it occurred to him that the
_Romeo._ And trust me, love, in my eye so do you;
hopes of a consulting practice. It was necessary to make a home
that there was no sign of a wound and that the rescue had been in
Of churches and houses, of horses and carts.
"'_Alas! young Queen, how ill you fare!
_Prince._ Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
really been placed in Barrymore's own hands. Be the answer what
"Very good, Barrymore; you can go." When the butler had left us
Who keeps my secret thoughts for me._"
he went and stood by it, and said:
October, 1997  [Etext #1064]*
great grief, and would gladly have had his sons back again. But no one
Grethel wept bitter tears, and said to Haensel, "Now all is over with
unmask him--that we may know whom we have to hang, at sunrise, from the
To old Freetown, our common judgment-place.--
seamed and scored with vile passions. Foul with mire, with a
very first house, of the first and second cause. Ah,
was a back-handed stroke. We have _punto_ (= thrust) in _M.W._ ii. 3.
rage. He, however, took Ash-Maiden on his horse and rode away with her.
bridge."
melting it, as the parliament had ordered that it should be destroyed.
if they are not dead, they are living still.
longingly toward her. But a second wave came up, covered him, and drew
to lead her forth into the wild forest.
"Well, sir, it was immediately after that our own trouble came to
the inflection, on prol. 8.
making him afterwards find his tongue and become "clamorous in his
I was exceedingly preoccupied by that little affair of the
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
"Oh, I'll behave well. Good-bye, Mother."
may turn our thoughts into more pleasant channels. I have a box
Till holy Church have joined ye both in one.
real ripe strawberries, which came up quite dark-red out of the snow!
with a sickle. She had already thrust a whole load into her cloth, and
that he sprang out of the house.
hot into the tree. Then the little brother said, "Little Sister, I
a useful amusement.
scaffolding.  Walk gently, and lay hold of the rail as you go along, and
water, and was still at home again, ten minutes before the King's
every civilized nation in the world, and forwards them to their
In the twilight of evening, he clambered over the wall into the garden
long shot of my revolver might have crippled him, but I had
pearl lay therein, of exactly the same kind as those which used to fall
Stapleton was guarded in his replies, but it was easy to see that
Holmes was sitting with his back to me, and I had given him no
some ways they have within the last forty-eight hours become much
II._ v. 3. 66: "thy digressing son."
"Because he could not find it in print. The other words were all
and were full of sorrow and longing. When spring had once more broken
"It is here in the corner."
gave him a scythe of silver, and a whetstone of gold, but bade him
threw down to her what she had wished for.
Halloa, Watson, what's this? It's the man himself, by all that's
"in her tender eyes
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
exultant, his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight. But
and scour. "All must be clean and sweet," she said to the maiden.
description here, would be more than can be expected.
If your daughter is as clever as you say, bring her to-morrow to my
_Prince._ Give me the letter; I will look on it.--
in which Shakspere himself renders Holinshed's 'runagates' by his own
Most lamentable day, most woful day,
and he appeared to be moving in their direction. At this instant
'Tis easy now to look
And when the full moon had risen, Haensel took his little sister by the
_Enter_ NURSE
To learne his name, that intertaind her in so gentle wise.
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
their horses, and some for another flask of wine.  But at
length they lay down to sleep, and the young apprentice also went to
which was taken advantage of with extraordinary quickness and
Then the miller said, "We will not have him here in the mill, he is so
again replied:
the arrival of the express from town. "I shall soon be in the
here am I alone in the forest, and forsaken by all the world. I will
157. _Toward school_, etc. Cf. _A.Y.L._ ii. 7. 145:--
glance at him as she talked as if seeking approbation for what
Cover the table with something to eat!_'
this statue was sold to one _Revet_, a brazier, on condition of his
erroneous. When I said that you stimulated me I meant, to be
again and asked why he was hanging his head.
me?"
was a quack--but in the matter of old wines he was sincere.  In this
That plats the manes of horses in the night,
"Well, what does she want, now?" said the Flounder.
him at Waterloo Station. I have had a wire that he arrived at
Sir Henry, walked off by the side of her brother. The
moss, and slept until morning. Their mother knew this, and had no worry
willing," for the Old Man said, "Here you shall have shelter and food.
perjurie of lovers."
there. And the man with the white beard once more asked his animals:
stared so intently has, I noticed, one peculiarity above all
O, that she knew she were!--
could help the police to lay their hands on him. Has it never
from the biggest Giant, who was two miles high, to the very smallest
The shoemaker spoke never a word, the heavy bread weighed down his back
"And so do I."
He wanted to know the object of my inquiries, but I managed to
Though heaven cannot.--O Romeo, Romeo!--
At length the sun began to rise, and when the woman saw the red of
go, you have only to beckon to a coachman, and
now, Dr. Mortimer, tell me this. If you hold these views, why
device?' In the accounts of many entertainments given in reigns
He wanted to run out, but she held him by the arm, and gave him a
"I think I will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will
_Tercell_, or _Tassell_ is the general name for the Male of all large
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
Then said the King, "Who can that strong fellow be who is carrying a
old tower. She climbed up the narrow winding-staircase, and reached
The man said, "I shall be very glad to do it."
a length," etc. For _rosemary_ as the symbol of remembrance, see _Ham._
from Newgate Street to Paternoster Row; where a stone is placed, in the
cannot help asking, Has every chair which wants a new bottom, been worn
than the indifference of hirelings, without attachment, to a family
thicket, a hazel twig brushed against him and knocked off his hat. Then
sprang about, and rejoiced at the prospect of the dance.
through the night.
Next day, the second brother undertook the adventure. It did not,
to do the mean work of a goose-girl.
forest, where his brother lay turned to stone. The old Witch came out
13. _Jealous-hood._ Jealousy; the abstract for the concrete; used by S.
and gray and thick, and no longer green and yellow, but it was still
his) is _Per._ ii. 3. 31: "All viands that I eat do seem unsavoury."
gold in that way!" but she was secretly envious of it, and wanted to go
lieve see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger
will take her into my care. Then ride with the Golden Horse into the
188. _Concludes._ For the transitive use (= end), cf. _2 Hen. VI._ iii.
situation more appropriate to the history than if it had been less
"I may have spoken too warmly, sir," said he, "and if I have, I
Then the man went and stood among than, and said, "Wife, are you
summer. See p. 19 above.
When he has you he will tear you in pieces and devour you," and he told
had been forced to give him a sleeping-draught, because a poor girl had
you for seven years. I have been to the Sun and the Moon, and the
professionals, I think, and we may need his assistance. Now,
chilled and hardened by learning how unlike they were to the ideals of
But the King's Daughter knew nothing about lighting fires or cooking,
particulars of some Latin inscription, to his mother and sister, who have
the property? House, land, and dollars must go together."
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
The Time-Analysis of the Play                            290
"_Kicker-ee-ricker-ee-ree!_"
_Romeo._ Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,
into our picture; but we have given a view of the grand entrance, with a
And after that the aged grandmother came out alive also, but scarcely
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
[Illustration]
to help me. One was Mr. Stapleton, a neighbour and intimate
letter--and she hath the prettiest sententious of it,
I do remember well where I should be,
and bloody intrigues which fill her annals. No one can fail to recognize
_Enter several of both houses who join the fray; then enter_ Citizens,
must be fulfilled. I will go thither and soften the Lion, so that I may
heard what the woman had said to their father.
those who want the goods more than they want their money.  Thus both
had it from his, I have set it down with all belief that it
as accented for the purposes of the verse; as, for instance, in lines 1,
the air, and in the moonlight he saw a bird coming whose feathers were
Or there, by the moonlight, astonish'd to stand,
finish it all within eight days. If you do that you shall have my
I could stand here all _day_ to behold this fine town;
fine view of the city.
not destroyed the statue, but kept it buried in the earth; and Charles
possible" (Dowden). _That word's death_ = the death implied in that
"_I have eaten so much,
foot-bridge?"
nothing until you read the reports of the death in the paper?"
He went round the town, sought a master, and soon found a good
_Cymb._ iv. 1. 16, etc.
are scattered throughout the length and breadth of the moor. But
regret their treatment of me, and already my words have come
return for it, he shall take care of me till my death."
But unseen by the King, the Little Man was standing beside him when
inserted in the text by Pope. White believes that they were purposely
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
her, and wanted to see into which house she went. But she sprang
But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?              100
66. _Be not so long to speak._ So slow to speak. Clarke remarks here:
We are four able-bodied men in this household, so that we could
Watson," said he; "I wish you simply to report facts in the
"Amontillado!"
feathers with her hand, and caressed the brindled cow between her horns.
_Therewithal._ Therewith, with it. Cf. _T.G. of V._ iv. 4. 90:--
"If the feather is so precious," declared the King, "one alone will not
scratched a hole! The duck came off the worst of all, for she leapt
"What do I see?" answered the Donkey; "a table covered with good things
under the table is better off, for she often throws it a nice bit.
incriminating documents."
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
Fortunato cause to doubt my good will.  I continued, as was my wont, to
anything happened to you, you have stayed away so long?"
the creation of the prince's own eccentric yet august taste.  A strong
forest, seated herself on a tree, and there passed the night. Next
Sir Henry suddenly drew Miss Stapleton to his side. His arm was
with a sharp knife.
For my wife, Dame Ilsabil,
And when she had walked a little farther, she met another child who had
I were very much shocked by the death of Sir Charles. We knew him
A gentleman of noble parentage,
poet's own, obtained from some other MS. altered during the poet's life;
has "prepare up him" in 45 just below.
16. _Cheerly._ Cheerily, briskly. Cf. _Temp._ i. 1. 6, 29, etc.
among the peasant-folk themselves.
and industrious, whilst the other was ugly and lazy. But she was much
"swallows the draught in a fit of fright," for it would have been "too
Then she married him; and he was rich, so rich that he had enough for
"_Oh, Queen, thou art fairest of all I see,
"How?"
villains, and recovered the spoil!
on it.
_Romeo._ Neither, fair maid, if either thee dislike.
_Romeo._ The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
were not contented only to employ these terms of abuse in their own
communication from the bottom of Queen Street, to Bankside, Southwark.
Dunderhead went and cut down the tree; and when it fell there was a
panting on two rocks, while we watched him disappearing in the
dirt from the streets, and collect it in a cart.  Surely, no part of
upon the breast, the child sucking it, and feeling the bitternesse, he
the death of Tybalt (iii. 3), there is a delicate tribute to the girlish
It was in the blue room where stood the prince, with a group of  pale
"We will bake first," said the Old Woman, "I have already heated the
84. _And is it not well served in_, etc. White remarks that "the passage
S. Cf. _C. of E._ iii. 1. 45: "The one ne'er got me credit, the other
nowadays. They are called _happy_ as "being privileged to touch the
petticoat.  Their stockings are of yellow worsted, and round their waist
mill. And this Princess was the little Tabby-Cat whom poor Hans had
104. _Needy._ Joyless. The word is = needful in _Per._ i. 4. 95: "needy
And bring in cloudy night immediately.--
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
attention to his sister. He is much attached to her, no doubt,
always see enough with one eye.
"By the time that you discovered me upon the moor I had a
Then the turner brought the Little Table, and said, "Now, dear Brother,
first time, he had to do so a second time also.
creatures in peace. I will not suffer you to kill them."
She answered, "I am Maid Maleen, who for your sake was imprisoned seven
and his own fortune can never fail."
And now little Snow-White lay a long, long time in the coffin. She did
them alone. They will not find the way home again, and we shall be rid
"The fact is no longer a secret. The person who has passed for
I dreamt my master and another fought,
"Mr. Holmes," she said, "this man had offered me marriage on
of age, very sturdily built, with thick black eyebrows and a
_Lady Capulet._ O me! this sight of death is as a bell
"I cannot think where she is."
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night.
and how can the lady know of the plan for his going there which was
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
the hill.
But to these words I hearkened in vain for a reply.  I grew impatient.
caused their chief to be brought and said, "If you will take gold and
Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
to restore the fallen grandeur of his line.  Sir Charles, as is
Falstaff, for instance, until he had carried him through three complete
the whole Court, and gazed at each other in great astonishment. And
"It is possible that Stapleton did not know of the existence of
There they stood, and did not know what to do. None of them dared to go
shall we do with this poor wretch's body? We cannot leave it here
"For the very simple reason that I see the dog himself on our
"She lifts the coffer-lids that close his eyes,
chamber until I call you."
plays, and then only because his "occupation," dramatically speaking,
drift into the country. What was he, then? If he was in the
"When they see they may her win,
When they were gone we looked out of the window again. Sir Henry
They walked the whole night long, and, by break of day, came once more
tower, down to the very smallest kitchen candle; and all the emperors
[Picture: Waterloo Bridge]
was projecting. Holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the
tonight. If you will wait, one or other of us will go back with
103. _My mind misgives_, etc. One of many illustrations of Shakespeare's
of the window; and when the King's Son came and cried:
heart full of malignancy against the whole race which had cast
_Capulet._ How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
The foal, however, begged to be set free. "I am still too young," it
the royal palace, with everything that pertains to it, loose or fast,
But the old King had no work for her, and knew of none, so he said, "I
world--the new brown, the old black, and the patent leathers,
himself therefore with his starved-out stomach into the town. It was
man will be as safe in Devonshire as in London. He comes in fifty
iii. 2. 393 ("a blue eye and sunken"), seems to be to a bluish circle
wakeful, tossing restlessly from side to side, seeking for the
to help the poor, and pray for the dead.  This custom, though once
The Elves Began to Stitch, Sew, and Hammer                        84
17. _The weakest goes to the wall._ A familiar proverb.
table to go away again:
disappearance, one and all, as soon as my back was turned.
afforded me the protection to which I am entitled. The case of
to his identity. There was certainly no physical injury of any
"Enough," he said; "the cough is a mere nothing; it will not kill me. I
"_For the love of God, Montresor!_"
She came thus many nights and never spoke a word. The nurse always saw
entitled _Agreement of Sundry Places of Scripture, seeming in shew to
Grimpen Mire. "I see the lights of a house ahead of us."
and good to her, and each of them sat on its own little chair. But the
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
shall wash yourself in milk every morning and drink wine; but my own
our steel. I've been checkmated in London. I can only wish you
evening. Then I should be very glad to compare impressions as to
will take you for my true wife."
"I assure you, sir--"
ferns. Bronzing bracken and mottled bramble gleamed in the light
But my true love is grown to such excess
"My God, what's that, Watson?"
Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.
into rooms and bedchambers just as she liked, and at last came to an
cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is
"Nature's bequest gives nothing but doth lend,
This is thy sheath [_Stabs herself_]; there rest, and let me die.
(presumably when she was a year old), she could not well be more than
Threadneedle Street, thence in a direct line to Holborn Bridge, and
their lives before now. You notice those bright green spots
And scarcely had he seated himself, when the Fox began to run, and
voice, "The King's Daughter, in her fifteenth year, shall prick herself
high as Holborn Bridge, under that part which Fleet Market is now built
"Would that suit Dr. Watson?"
active, and bring some water. Let Haensel be fat or lean, to-morrow I
my father's mill."
Then the King caused it to be proclaimed that whosoever could discover
front. Did you see him come out on us?"
houses. The story was retold in French by Adrian Sevin, about 1542; and
our investigation. But we are bound to exhaust all other
her father's death became King, while his two brothers received the two
_Pretty little Cock,_
And yet I wish but for the thing I have.
and dear, so that the poor men in that line of business found a great
SCENE III.--1. On the character of the Nurse Mrs. Jameson says:--
by which one may identify any man who has been in the profession.
disobedience to their parents, not in any way responsible for what they
little Snow-White was still alive.
instant, sir host," said he, "I will go and fetch some money;" but he
As Tieck remarks, it "had not the true tragic ring"--and why should it?
I promise you, but for your company,
"_Capulet._ Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
"Whatever you tell me to do I will do."
Or those eyes shut that make thee answer ay.
"The man is rather deaf, and in any case we must take our chance
saved. So he did not fire, but took a pair of scissors, and began to
three, and set out.
"_Blow, blow, thou gentle Wind, I say,
6. _Go, you cot-quean_, etc. Several editors give this speech to Lady
the part of Peter, as he did that of Dogberry in _Much Ado_.
realizes its own hideous creations,"--that is, after picturing all the
"I will run and fetch some one," said Rose-Red.
far as his concealment goes there is no difficulty at all. Any
as the old woman had directed him, cut open the bird, sought the heart,
16. _Infection._ A quadrisyllable. Cf, iv. 1. 41 above.
Hop hither and thither,
Dove was sitting there.
10. _Ay me!_ Often changed here and elsewhere to "Ah me!" which occurs
the preacher was paid six shillings and twopence for his labour; the
in his _Night Thoughts_, ii.: "A night that glooms us in the noontide
_Capulet._                       He shall be endur'd;
Every morning I awake in pain and sorrow. I had three daughters, the
INTRODUCTION TO ROMEO AND JULIET                           9
kind, and by communion limited to the innocent confidences made by one
Henry's friend, and his welfare is a very close concern of mine.
Thereupon he got up, and rode forth into the forest. It was not long
'Come, Night, come, Romeo, _come thou day in night_!' expresses that
_Romeo._ Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit
"And why were you so pressing that Sir Charles should destroy
"A greater mystery to me is why this hound, presuming that all
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
second cab and followed the first at a respectful distance, or,
Her mother said, "No, my dear little Daughter, it is too cold, you
"I am more to blame than you, Watson. In order to have my case
them well, and even do them some injury, he took them to a lonely
"To my Grandmother's."
_Juliet._ O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
The King, however, went so frequently to visit his dear children, that
find something at the roots."
were so heavy that he tumbled down at once, and fell dead.
the midst of it, she let fall the nut. Immediately a tall nut-tree grew
carry the whole world before us."
there lay a Wild Man whose body was brown like rusty iron, and whose
it be not I. They will be sure to know."
1 _Servingman._ Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He shift
There was once upon a time, a tailor, who had three sons and only one
"A huge human foot d'or, in a field azure; the foot crushes a serpent
go to the Flounder, for I wish to be even as God is."
"_Looking-Glass, Looking-Glass, on the wall,
with a bluish flame and the small, deep-set, cruel eyes were
it, and said, "Open the door for me, Children! Your dear little mother
In all her best array bear her to church;
cut open the stomach of the sleeping Wolf.
As is a winged messenger of heaven
"'_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, bleat,
deal to the countryside. Sir Henry has, I suppose, no
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
"Halloa, Watson! Where have you dropped from?" said he. "You
10. _Use._ Are accustomed. We still use the past tense of the verb in
S. has _caught_.
"In each case the outside porter will send for the hall porter,
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
prepared the way for his own death. Stapleton, as I will continue
distilled the rheum of intoxication.
DOCTOR KNOWALL
6(37); iii. 1(202), 2(143), 3(175), 4(36), 5(241); iv. 1(126), 2(47),
114. _Drift._ Scheme. Cf. ii. 3. 55 above.
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
145. _Discover._ Uncover, reveal. See on ii. 2. 106 above.
[Picture: The Sailors and Ship]
and of my appearance, as well as from his general conduct, I am
glanced keenly at us as we passed. The coachman, a hard-faced,
time that he need be in London; or, again, he might furnish an
_Proverbs_.
Then he asked, "Goat, are you satisfied?" She replied:
under arms, with, "_Who comes there_?" to which he replies, "_The Keys_."
enough, but I dare say that there was a lurking devil in his
glowed like bronze in the golden rays, and it was hard to realise
_Juliet._ Well, do not swear. Although I joy in thee,
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
called down with clear and penetrating voice:
171. _Good hap._ Piece of good luck. Cf. ii. 2. 190 above.
that he might hew the pigeon-house to pieces, but no one was inside it.
near to the edge of a precipice. We must wish you good-morning
they sat down, and ate and drank together.
And where care lodges sleep will never lie;
"If that be all," said the duck, "we can help you. The crown fell into
"_I am King! I am King!_"
itself, and yet I could almost wish that you had not left his
which he hopes the game may wander. One struck, and two, and we
rewe."
open, became alarmed, and, lighting a lantern, went in
And here is come to do some villanous shame
stands."
surrounded by leaves.
APPENDIX
the eagerness and joy with which she laid us on her husband's
"in contempt
what the exact nature of the problem is in which you demand my
belong to the early draft of the play, with much that precedes and
minute we had torn off the gag, unswathed the bonds, and Mrs.
in the passage. There was no light save in the dining-room, but
What about the convict on the moor?"
She ran back home, trembling like an aspen-leaf. The Old Woman was
little sister by the hand, and they set off to find the brook.
"Ah, but Red-Comb," said the Donkey, "you had better come away with
Highgate-hill, for the purpose of easing the draught of horses in passing
What, goodman boy! I say he shall. Go to;
"_Wednesday_ is to-morrow:
Though peril to my modesty, not death on 't,
of pure gold. Crystal chandeliers hung from the ceiling, and all the
let me talk about it either if she could have stopped it. She
merely a visitor," said she. "It cannot much matter to him
The wise and benevolent design of founding an hospital for those brave
She ran to the door of her own house, but it was shut. Then she knocked
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
face."
me and which I have not deserved of you, will be requited. When times
white with rage, and those light eyes of his were blazing with
"Halt, halt!" cried the tailor, and seized him by the leg. "I don't
_Capulet._ Despis'd, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
as well plane the planks for our coffins."
unfairly not to tell you all that I know about the matter."
Geraniums, in dresses of scarlet and green;
If no inconstant toy nor womanish fear
divorce?"
Briar-Rose." The good old man might dissuade him as he would, he did
defines it) or clear blue, as Dyce and others assume.
moor. On the other hand, if I should find the hut and its tenant
Romeo, good night.--I'll to my truckle-bed;
weak."
Even now the frozen bosom of the North,
cast bisket and carrowaies in it, and so serve it; guild it before you
lay.
they stood before her window, and every year bore the most beautiful
_Romeo._ Give me a torch; I am not for this ambling.
She was ashamed that she had a bald head, and ran to a fox's hole and
He stood in front of us now with the subdued manner of a
strained to the highest; and observe the blessed effect on the purity of
Capulet promises as rich a monument to Romeo.
says, would certainly remain untenanted if anything were done to
Baskerville, on which, as it turned its blazing eyes and
"Open the door, dear Children! Your mother is here, and has brought
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
brickmakers: bones and old rags, tin and old iron, are carefully
Romeo does not attain to true manhood until he receives the tidings of
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
When the wedding with the King's Son had to be celebrated, the two
were so--suppose that the same man had been the last who had seen
That calls our person from our morning's rest?
that it was begun as early as 1561, but I think that most of them lay
_Enter_ TYBALT
dreadful sounds had come. At every rise Holmes looked eagerly
your neighbours or acquaintances on Dartmoor any man with a
But a spark of pity shew.
In the castle-yard he saw the horses and the spotted hounds lying
Not a waggon-wheel I heard,
moorland path. Her eyes were on her brother as I turned, and then
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
door of the wagonette. The figure of a woman was silhouetted
whom I can't answer, but among the farmers or gentry there is no
state to the House of Lords, is enriched with an emerald seven inches
top-gallant of his valour." S. uses the term only here.
one of us wants gets burnt up directly with thick logs. We do not
what is my name?" she said:
has come home, and has brought every one of you something from the
44. _Of our side._ On our side (_on = of_, as often).
The principal entrance is by three gates on the west side.  The whole are
voice, and hence came those cries which even in daylight were not
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
And then as eche of them had of his household name,
Stay but a little, I will come again.                    [_Exit._
"Don't ask me, Sir Henry--don't ask me! I give you my word, sir,
evening, fastened the braids of hair which she had cut off, to the hook
together.
This flower-man carries and offers for sale,
ceased, a light laughter at once pervaded the assembly; the musicians
With blue of heaven's own tinct."
Charles at the very hour and place at which he met his death, but
my late wife left behind her, but she cannot possibly be the Bride."
_Capulet._ Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
For manly reason is quite from of [off] thy mynd outchased,
your wife only told us, when it was forced from you and you could
looked at the girl and shook his head. When he saw that she had fallen
There they saw a little Gray Man sitting at a table. They called him,
and six hundred seconds of the Time that flies,) there came yet another
Early in the morning, came the woman, and took the children out of
such poverty that they had to wander about and beg their bread from
But the little fellow began to laugh, reached him his bottle, and said,
What all this meant I could not imagine, but I was deeply ashamed
upon his knee. "You will observe, Watson, the alternative use of
And I'd rather, says I, since it keeps me from sin,
After a while they saw a man who was standing on one leg and had taken
"What, are _you_ coming, Watson?" he asked, looking at me in a
wealth of the country, he became enraged, and bade his horsemen mount
end of my beard? Now you have cut off the best part of it. I cannot
cousin Tybalt; Lucio and the lively Helena?'_
shoot him a roe, but he did not come back.
the Old Woman's house, when he was just about to drop.
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
Nevertheless the idea never left his thoughts, so that next morning he
tinder."
again.
whenever she had picked one, she fancied that she saw a still prettier
"For kings are clouts that every man shoots at,
of events; the stars cannot alter his course. 'Nothing,' as Maginn has
And it began to cook, and she ate till she was satisfied. Then she
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs,
June 3, 1876; also M'Clintock and Strong's _Biblical Cyclopaedia_, under
THE PENN PUBLISHING
book out of his pocket, and laid it at the Queen's feet. She bade him
the judge condemned him to death. When he was led forth to die, he
styled a _femme couverte_ [_feme covert_] in law French" (Mason).
So she shook the tree till the apples fell like rain, and went on
so hard to find the pearls, and he got on so slowly, that he seated
danger to cross it, but after these autumn rains it is an awful
also, Dr. Watson. Not a word! You understand!"
years and three quarters in completing, and cost PS389,500 being more than
Drawn up from the dreary mine,
complained of her woes to the Wise Woman.
_Juliet._ Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
_Benvolio._ Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
refresh me."
long. When she was below she fetched herself a chair, and set it before
parent, child, or friend, who wishes to hear of the welfare of parties
rather to be circumspect in the future, that those foul
One day, she wanted to go into the forest and fetch some food. So
one with S.
in his bed, and when the Twelve Princesses had come up slowly and
have lived."
"Then you are not the true Bride."
Chequering the eastern clouds with streaks of light,
possible to anyone. He is silent and distrait. His nerves have
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
1. 283: "the displanting of Cassio."
together in his cave. The old mother lived peacefully and happily with
"Mortimer, James, M.R.C.S., 1882, Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon.
Or reason coldly of your grievances,
die of hunger.
Sherlock Holmes had, in a very remarkable degree, the power of
Hall. The story of the Stapletons could no longer be withheld
In the cradle where it lies."
Next day, it was the turn of the second son, who looked out for a place
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
"auburn-haired," but that surely is no _nickname_. Schmidt understands
and it was not all legible. I ask you once again why it was that
picked them all up. Haensel said to Grethel, "We shall soon find the
curious way.
and immediately the little table and everything on it was gone again.
got the name of King Thrushbeard.
Within this hour my man shall be with thee,
pleases you, we will sit down and eat."
the limits of his power over her when he endeavoured to make her
or a peep into London
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
My child is yet a stranger in the world;
husband, but whosoever lost it, must lose his head.
Contents
thirty, amiable, unambitious, absent-minded, and the possessor of
78. _Prorogued._ Delayed; as in iv. 1. 48 below. On _wanting of_, cf. v.
"The nitre!" I said; "see, it increases.  It hangs like moss upon the
it. Look at this stranger hiding out yonder, and watching and
"_Oh, take me out! Take me out!
*       *       *       *       *
inexorably on.
know what has become of the salad."
he is to them for letting him have their money.
not let it go unless he had reason to think that Sir Henry would
"Behave well, Hans."
"You interest me exceedingly. Another point. Was the wicket-gate
Doth she not think me an old murtherer,
Stamford's for the Ordnance map of this portion of the moor, and
well--quite as well as any ordinary mortal can--had reached the well,
trusting to chance, she went on and on, until the sun sank and night
and Barnaby Rich's _Farewell_: "Knowing the fashion of you men to be
hear: yet the figure of one individual stands very silently in the midst
points or dots with which it is expressed. S. uses the word only here.
[Illustration]
was greater than it had ever been before. But he could not rejoice over
and she thinks that he needs "watching" even now, lest he give her
of her sorrow, and gave her a Little Pot, which, when she said:
in the city of London, having taken his seat in Panyer Alley, leading
would terminate next day. It had not crossed my mind however,
_Friar Laurence._ Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
date as to all that has occurred in this most God-forsaken corner
_Capulet._ So many guests invite as here are writ.--
and I were concerned at their situation, and it was suggested
wind. In his tweed suit and cloth cap he looked like any other
bridge.  The first stone was laid by John Garratt, Esq. lord mayor, on
LITTLE SNOW-WHITE
She could now no longer bewitch any one. And Jorinda was standing
_Nurse._                         And from my soul too;
shone bright, the birds sang, a cool breeze crept through the leaves,
That we have had no time to move our daughter.
the hot sands of Arabia or the East Indies, walking in the streets!
_Benvolio._ I'll pay that doctrine or else die in debt.
is made up; the whole course of the short remainder of his life so
maliciously, and said mockingly, "I have them, they shall not escape me
FOREWORD
useful in the detection and correction of these errors and corruptions,
other."
_Friar Laurence._ Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
after his bridal disappointment) to die at Juliet's bier by the hand of
get it there."
occupy.
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
a kind of "moral" to the production. After the suggestion to parents
The following morning, too, he found the four pairs made. And so it
leaving him to hunger all day. "It is not my fault," she replied, "the
_Enter_ LADY CAPULET
until I could explain them was more than I could bear. I had an
Then he put his paws in through the window. And when the Kids saw that
repair and turned into a modern dwelling. An orchard surrounded
_Tybalt._ What wouldst thou have with me?
The baronet and I were both upon our feet. "Do you know how he
foot was on the threshold of his hiding place--his secret was
"Yes. On the death of Sir Charles we inquired for this young
_Mercutio._ I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.            80
"You know the story of the hound?"
97. _That._ So that; as often. _Receipt_ is not elsewhere applied by S.
associations in Europe; and their house in Leadenhall Street is a very
will fire guns, and throw squibs into the streets, which have caused many
"Good-bye, Hans."
own language which every one understood. Now it only sounds like
foot."
himself to the entertainment given by Wolsey [i. 4] he appears, like
believe to be entirely honest, and there is his wife, of whom we
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance.
Love's tender spring;" _T.G. of V._ i. 1. 43: "in the sweetest bud The
Esq. engineer; and the works are conducted under the direction of John
96. _Death's pale flag._ Steevens compares Daniel, _Complaint of
"I think also that the probability is in favour of his being a
do."
the next house, and then the whole street, just as if it wanted to
then the pickaxe which has been left up there might dash his brains
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
35. _By and by._ Presently. See on ii. 2. 151 above.
Next day, when the feast began afresh, and her parents and the sisters
Of hill or highest wall," etc.
wind.
"_One-Eye, wakest thou?
unusual magnificence.
the right one, but I should like to have some further proof of
"_Shiver and quiver, Little Tree,
137. _Wot._ Know; used only in the present tense and the participle
When he turned round, he was standing in front of an old tree which was
7. _Joint-stools._ A kind of folding-chair. Cf. _1 Hen. IV._ ii. 4. 418,
He went up to the youth, embraced him and said, "I am Iron John, and
"Yes."
night.
away he went over stock and stone till his hair whistled in the wind.
When the shoemaker saw that one stroke had failed, he contrived a
off, but fresh and clear."
are now removed to the west end of the hall, as they are seen in the
That late thou gav'st me! for Mercutio's soul
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
[Illustration: THE HEAD ANSWERED, "ALAS! YOUNG QUEEN HOW ILL YOU FARE"]
270. _Still._ Always. See on 106 above.
Nought els soundeth but the hoorse letter R.
exactly what he wanted all day and ask no questions. I was glad
matter. I act entirely from a sense of public duty. I have no
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
Then they went down together, and the King awoke, and the Queen, and
69: "my portly belly;" _1 Hen. IV._ ii. 4. 464: "A goodly portly man, i'
there came yet another child, and asked for a little shirt. The good
the cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose-trees, one of which
melancholy everything looked all around! Her father's castle lay
"Because I had only just learned that he was going to London next
The little bird without a name, however, sought out a mouse-hole,
With a few broken words of gratitude the man turned, but he
'The best food does not please me without salt, therefore I love my
To be to thee this night a torch-bearer
the sick and maimed.  It was granted by King Henry the Eighth, on certain
again until you perish amid the waves."
a great distance over the moor so as to get it home without
But the Frog, when he had received this promise, put his head into the
anything to injure you, do but say:
look out.
Among the tangled green.
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!--
other, and so an unnecessary risk would be run. I brought
"Whither away, Hans?"
There was once on a time, an old Goat who had seven little Kids, and
Chapter 6.
my husband. Will you go at once?"
This edition is based on the Hunt version, with an introduction by
never in their lives been before. Then a great fire was again made, and
SCENE I. _A Public Place_
35), either singular or plural. Cf. _J.C._ iv. 3. 155: "That tidings;"
"_What rumbles and tumbles
So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
On the opposite side of the lake stood a splendid, brightly-lit castle,
Marston, _Antonio and Mellida_, part ii.: "He has had wrongs; and if I
district, and that it is a hardy man who will cross the moor at
and knocked at the door and cried, "Pretty things to sell, very cheap,
But these other apartments were densely crowded, and in them beat
superintendence of the late John Rennie, Esq.  The opening of this bridge
all the food in the house.
And see how he will take it at your hands.
then, who wept in the night, and if she did so her husband must
For if you doe intende my honor to defile:
"Good-bye, Hans."
rolled in a waterproof lay upon that very stone slab upon which
is preferred by some of the modern editors.
Thy beastly tale most pleasantly will slip,
What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
the open country, and drawing a shining golden thread after it. Before
Out on her, hilding!
lime-tree in the forest, was a fountain. When the day was very warm,
ashes, as usual, for she had jumped down on the other side of the tree,
"Which purchase if thou make, for fear of slips
of the _Times_. It is this page. You could easily recognize it,
no one."
same purposes as those of its original foundation.  The present building
frequently and more artistically, by waving the hand as the conductor of
First of all about the test telegram, which you sent from London
stood, opposite to each window, a heavy tripod, bearing a brazier of
The Eldest Got the Merry Tailor for a Husband                    227
croaked loudly from a tor behind us.
She looked round to the side from whence the voice came, and saw
this house at ten o'clock this morning and afterwards followed
not dead, and are fed three times daily, but they are so sad that they
Come, go with me.--[_To Servant, giving a paper_] Go, sirrah, trudge
hunts-up to thy sleepy head." We have the full form in _T.A._ ii. 2. 1:
flaming on the hearth, became quiet and slept. The roast meat left off
"Ay, master, and I never was so happy in my life.  I thought, like a
She went up to her father and mother, fell on their necks and kissed
Whom by his heauy countenaunce he gessed to be poore.
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore
sleeve."
every one, even the Bride, looked at her with astonishment. The
golden fish or a golden snake show itself therein, and he took care
A year after, she had a beautiful child, and she never gave a thought
"I owe him nothing, and his friends are not mine. If it were not
When presently through all thy veins shall run
other footsteps save those of Barrymore on the soft gravel, and
117. _Contract._ Accented by S. on either syllable, as suits the
took a perverse pleasure in going over every circumstance that had
JORINDA AND JORINGEL
which you ran which led me to come down and examine the matter
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
and fields to walk in; and at Greenwich, there is a large and pleasant
Hardly had she disappeared, before the Count descended from the tree,
imports, and lower the general conditions of life in this island.'
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
unchastity), attempting all adventures of peril for the attaining of
always by Stapleton in the cab. From his knowledge of our rooms
2. 272: "Hate me! Wherefore? O me! what news, my love!"
Son seated himself upon it. Away he went over stock and stone, till his
sword upon the table, and says 'God send me no
118 below.
He drew a dart and shot at him,
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
sprang to my feet, my inert hand grasping my pistol, my mind
house. He was deeply impressed with the curse which hung over the
place himself with his forefeet upon the window-ledge, the Hound was
"Those are the public facts, Mr. Holmes, in connection with the
THE SIX SWANS                                                    127
hers, running at us with a face on him like a madman. He was just
These were gather'd fresh to-day;
8. _Doth._ The reading of the quartos, changed by most of the modern
And for that name, which is no part of thee,
forty years of age, dressed in a grey suit and wearing a straw
majesty's proclamation of peace."  On this the gates are opened, and he
Holmes, the specialist in crime? Come in!"
hand and danced with no one but her. When others came and invited her,
me alive, Children:
are common over the centre of cross churches, as at York Minster, Ely
they please, and enjoy the green fields and wild hedge-flowers, in the
tastefully arranged in a variety of figures.  The apartment is three
share her good fortune. When the betrothed couple went to church,
descended through the opening, the eldest going first.
79.  The Waterman, the Ticket Porter, and Fellowship Porter.
open, dilapidated stone sarcophagus (perhaps only an old horse-trough),
all its characteristic sweetness and beauty--though it be not called a
lived thickly on the moor, and as no one in particular has lived
The Count sprang up, and as he felt that he was quite fresh, and had
80. _All things_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
with rubbish showed the position of an abandoned mine. Beside it
irrelevant, but still I feel that it is best that I should let
lord had the horses put in his carriage, drove out to the village, and
The little fellow put his head out and peeped, and wanted to slip away,
_3 Musician._ Faith, I know not what to say.
Baskerville's and almost next door to it. These rooms appeared to
_Mercutio._ Why, is not this better now than groaning
For this alliance may so happy prove
[Picture: The Camel and Monkey]
THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER
again."
and which she had picked up.
_Nurse._ Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
"He followed the hound to call him off--of that you may be
Go, tell the prince;--run to the Capulets;--
Holle. And at the same time, she gave her back the shuttle which she
"And seeking long (alac too soone) the thing he sought, he founde.
Thy crying and thy weping eyes, denote a womans hart.
In the evening, when she had washed up and was done, she felt in her
18. _Honey nurse._ Cf. _L. L. L._ v. 2. 530: "my fair, sweet, honey
Chapter 15 A Retrospection
your good deed. I know already what is needful to you, but you shall
blowing."
"Crave leave to view these ladies and entreat
"To which nettle-plant?" asked she; "I don't talk to nettle-plants."
_Juliet._ If they do see thee, they will murther thee.            70
What is it else? a madness most discreet,                        190
on her, then she said to it, "You blow over every tree and under every
Farmer Furrowdale's kitchen, and the lamps lighted as regularly every
picked the flower and went with it to the castle, and that everything
King and Queen and the whole Court were asleep likewise. He had heard,
_Juliet._ I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell,
_Juliet._ It is an honour that I dream not of.
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
mere jealousy because our views upon the subject differ. Now,
There were only two men in the room, Sir Henry and Stapleton.
to the Little Man. But suddenly he came into her room, and said, "Now
An hour of revels with them."
_Enter_ FRIAR LAURENCE _and_ PARIS _with_ Musicians
26. _Slays._ The 2d quarto has "staies" (= stops, paralyzes), which some
Young men of ardent and sentimental nature, as Kreyssig intimates,
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
In truth the masquerade licence of the night was nearly unlimited; but
Closed in Night's mists attend the frolick Day,
The feud of the two households and the civil strife that it has caused
effect."
which was made of one piece of gold, and was quite two miles high;
When Two-Eyes was thus carried away by the handsome Knight, her two
Piteous predicament!
_Romeo._ O, let us hence! I stand on sudden haste.
railed on his birth, etc., though in Brooke's poem he does:--
_Capulet._ When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
But next morning, the tree had vanished, and all their hopes were at
is the badge of the family, the _cap_ carved in stone on the inner side
That unsubstantial Death is amorous,
eds. have "love"; but Tybalt is not given to irony.
face white in the moonlight, his hands raised in horror, glaring
The Donkey and the Hound laid themselves down under a large tree. The
is scarce. Where am I to go?"
Among the graves I leapt about,
complete knowledge of the whole business, but I had not a case
steps, he just trod a little on her dress.
whether they could not be set free.
life;" a proverbial expression. Steevens quotes _The Downfall of Robert
with me now to my room."
_Peter._ Then will I lay the serving-creature's
runner awoke, leapt up, and saw that his pitcher was empty, and that
the soldier took as much gold as he could carry.
2. _Fair Verona._ The city is thus described in the opening lines of
_Mercutio._ Why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline,
71. _Enter_ CAPULET _in his gown_. Cf. _Ham._ (quarto) iii. 4. 61:
visitor. I read his record aloud.
at a different kind of cabbage, but as soon as he had swallowed it, he
really must show that we are grateful for it. They run about so much,
"Strike down to earth that false judge there, and his constable, and
first impression. But the second was criticism. There was
Chapter 14.
This man, although he appears poor, yet he occupies the highest situation
been represented as dividing the stage, so that the audience could see
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
Seal'd up the doors and would not let us forth,
nerves but also from his wounded feelings. His love for the lady
as any other table which did not understand language. Then the poor
rowed them back again over the lake, and this time the soldier seated
wickedness and falsehood, they were punished with blindness as long as
up in the kennels, on each side of the carriageway.
action, in the modification of one character and in the disposal of
"Aha!" she cried mockingly, "you would fetch your dearest! But the
the Old in Verona, and the monument of the Scaligers which stood in it."
stomach. "Ah!" said she, "is it possible that my poor children, whom he
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
this sense, but not the present. Cf. _Temp._ ii. 1. 175: "they always
So he was led out to the sea, and a gold ring was cast into it. Then
next line is printed "Godgigoden" in the quartos and first three folios,
31. _The lark_, etc. The toad having beautiful eyes, and the lark very
"To Grethel, Mother."
two hundred and seventy feet in length, and seventy-four in breadth.  The
the pretty maiden.
_Mercutio._ The slip, sir, the slip; can you not                  50
Of fryer Lawrence thus araynde, that good barefooted fryre?
wants, and then over a belated supper we explained to the baronet
There was once a poor man and a poor woman who had nothing but a little
not come I was surprised, and I naturally became alarmed for his
_Romeo._ I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
She has reach'd her port at last.
before the woman's daughter, stood water to wash herself with and water
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
The corps then will they bring to graue in this church yarde,
moor, though, of course, you are rather late to see the beauties
relative is expressed in the next line. We should expect "thrilling" or
"You saw this?"
_Mercutio._ Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is
19. _Strain'd._ Wrenched, forced. Cf. _M. of V._ iv. 1. 184: "The
briskly, annoys not only the eyes of those who walk, and of those who
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied,
_Juliet._ Romeo!
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
"swounds" rhyming with "wounds."
"I am presuming that the cause of his fears came to him across
where he was said to have died unmarried. He did, as a matter of
you and to confess that some misfortune had occurred through my
I sat with my coffee-cup halfway to my lips and stared at
[Illustration]
their places; and the procession, joined by the city magistrates,
Chapter 2.
deep reason lay behind it. I resisted all pressure to stay for
Then he himself went up, and when he saw that she was right, he went to
which rose from the steep, high-angled roof there sprang a single
of our wits;" and ordered one of them to go and examine the house.
refers to the "falling" dew; as in _K. John_, ii. 1. 285, _Hen. VIII._
there rose in the distance a grey, melancholy hill, with a
Thou know'st my lodging; get me ink and paper,
"What do you wish?" said the soldier.
At last, the third came with the like intent, and the others screamed
One other neighbour I have met since I wrote last. This is Mr.
The Masque of the Red Death
"Come home, then," said the youth, and took hold of the cord round her
Scotland, by ships; and very few towns or cities in Europe are better
originally pronounced) in _J.C._ iv. 1. 22: "To groan and sweat under
be an ornament to any anthropological museum. It is not my
"pernicious rage." Montague will raise the golden statue to Juliet, and
Etexts and wanted it to appear as if they had more Etext than Project
also the death of the _hate_ which was the primal cause of all the
a country boy he was of great assistance to me. I was dependent
the nut fall. It will immediately shoot up, and a tall nut-tree will
twenty-eight, while her husband, having done masking for some thirty
The quibble at the end alludes to the old proverb that "one is no
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline;
_Nurse._ Out upon you! what a man are you!                       110
nimble, and his burden still heavier. All at once, she made a spring,
months. The Cat asked him if he would like to see her horses?
"No," answered the joiner, "I will not take the few bites out of your
Torments him so that he will sure run mad.
"It has certainly a character of its own. There are points of
Then cherish pity, lest you drive an angel from your door.
The next morning, as soon as he got into the open country, there sat
and vague, but always there is the dark shadow of crime behind
was a false one. A clever man upon so delicate an errand has no
JULIET.--Juliet is not fortunate in her parents. Her father is sixty or
rose and peeped into the hut. "Ha, I see that Cartwright has
and craft, with a smiling face and a murderous heart.
before me on the table. One page is missing, but otherwise they
Then Haensel sprang out like a bird from its cage, when the door is
Then she was forced to obey, and put on the Bride's magnificent clothes
transporting love-confessions of Romeo and Juliet and Ferdinand and
But the wound was so slight that the Roe, next morning, did not feel it
say--now shows a self-control and fortitude worthy of a man.
of the former list of interpretations is at all satisfactory.
Of stout Mercutio; and then Tybalt fled,
"But," thought he, "it would be absurd if I were to leave the beautiful
18. _In disobedient opposition._ This line has but two regular accents,
that the glass clattered!
she is her natural self and at perfect ease--is true to characteristic
"We have to go, Eliza. This is the end of it. You can pack our
had, my weapon should quickly have been out, I
honest mirth at it." Halliwell-Phillipps quotes _Westward Hoe_, 1607: "I
in the last little glass she dropped the ring which she had brought
natural,--
Gifford explains the expression thus: "_Dun in the mire_ is a Christmas
with another for tying his new shoes with old riband?             30
"You shall not repent it," answered the Fox; "and that you may proceed
PETER, servant to Juliet's nurse.
told Paris that she shall be his if he can gain her love, but discreetly
The kettle was of copper and shone like gold, so brightly was it
should ask them here than that the matter should pass outside our
poets. Stanyhurst, the translator of Virgil, in 1582, makes Dido call
_Gregory._ [_Aside to Sampson_] Say 'better'; here
palace, and his wife was just standing on the steps going in. She took
The King then summoned his daughters, and asked them if the soldier had
Boydell, who greatly promoted the arts.  The fine painting by Mr. Copley,
Unfold the imagin'd happiness that both
sometimes masculine, as in _K. John_, v. 1. 70 and _Rich. II._ ii. 3.
"What am I to do?" asked the Little Man.
_M.W._ iv. 6. 48: "procure the vicar To stay for me," etc.
and then the little Dwarf said, "Now the Lord Ravens are flying home."
For three days, the Count had to wander in the wilderness before he
as good in summer as in winter; but in hot weather bread gets dry and
"Oh, my God!" I gasped. "What is it? What does it mean?"
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
"It puts him in the power of the cabman."
of me," and, quite beside himself with anger, he ran up-stairs and
Such was emong the bashfull maydes, Mercutio to beholde.
their letters, knots, armes, escutcheons, beasts, birds, and other
It seems, however, that there must have been some short cut for
Once when it happened that no one else was at hand, the cook ordered
1.  The pope's banner, by him blessed and declared invincible.
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
_weeds_ = garments, see _M.N.D._ ii. 2. 71, etc.
And madly play with my forefathers' joints?
120. _I swear._ Collier thinks these words "hardly consistent with
occasion of the change?"
youngest of whom was so beautiful, that the whole world looked on her
hungry her father would be, and how her good mother would grieve, if
they reached the three sharp-cutting swords they seated themselves on
"To your vaults."
and lofty wall girdled it in. This wall had gates of iron.  The
in, and walked with solemn steps over the smooth marble pavement.
your hands. Take me home and cut me into six pieces. Give your wife two
quite piteously, each outdoing the other.
that she is still alive, and may have hidden herself in a cave, or has
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
usually held here; and the coronation feasts have been celebrated therein
Twice I have with my own ears heard the sound which resembled the
sisters did her every imaginable injury--they mocked her and emptied
by Edgar Allan Poe
Dict._ does not recognize blue as a meaning of _grey_. It seems,
sometimes = bluish grey or bluish; but never "bright blue" (as Delius
"Why do you not rejoice over the fine boy?" he told her what had
"Alas, dear Father," she answered, "they have gone away and left me
They sweare no stormy troubles shall theyr steady friendship shake."
If help did not come soon, they must die of hunger and weariness!
brought up some supplies. What's this paper? So you have been to
was not to be broken until a girl came to us, whose heart was so good
Said he, "I have been so fortunate as to find the most wonderful salad
'Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?' The stage Juliet answers
on the grass, and when it was moist with dew, washed the sockets of his
drinking here and earning nothing. You must weave baskets."
"I took her nothing, she gave me something."
she was to take the greatest care of, namely, three large needles, a
Oh, then you might tremble with terror, and fly
I thought 'twas six Kids,
was too short, "Short and thick is never quick." The fourth was too
away. At first he thought that he was the police, but soon he
Being vex'd, a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears.
bless it to your use," and went onward.
and do not show your face again until you have the basketful of
"Where is the girl?" said he; "I want to see her, go and bring her
When the King was informed of this he said, "Let the rascals go. They
one dared to go into it because it belonged to a Witch, who had great
For a professor; he designs, he draws,
which was thought to resemble the human figure, and when torn from the
afraid that the horse might tell how she had behaved to the King's
prince, Edward the Sixth, who founded this school for orphans and other
25. _This three hours._ The singular _this_ is often thus used; but cf.
_Pardoneres Tale_:--
"Don't do that," replied the stork; "I am a sacred bird which brings
and Capulet comes out before he is dressed.
"Had Sir Charles reached this?"
gentleman, not older than yourself."
understand that I cannot always give reasons for what I say or
might be commended to the teacher and the critical student are the
and bade her come out of the stove. And royal garments were placed on
woke up in the morning with the brilliancy of the sunshine, what did
The change from prose to verse is well illustrated in the third scene of
anything to please you?"
"Well," said I, "has this precious relation of yours departed, or
power of this spiteful old busybody. But his next remark took a
Wolf's body. And when he awoke, he wanted to run away, but the stones
waiting for the tenant to return. So you actually thought that I
reached the house of the Old Man, was told to go in, and begged for
more beautiful.
but the house in which he lived. Now each of the sons wished to have
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
and sentiment, far from prejudicing us against Romeo by casting on him,
drove off upon my new quest.
in the castle. Then she was taken as a scullery-maid at low wages. But,
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
Meanwhile, the time passed, and by the small amount of food and drink
grew more and more miserable, until at last she began to weep.
already explained that the testimony of the postmaster shows that
vaults.  We are below the river's bed.  The drops of moisture trickle
reservoir at the other end of them.  If they cannot find a convenient
out in Frankland _v_. Regina I venture to think that a thrill of
Forbid this bandying in Verona streets.
there, gave her a knife, and said she was to scrape at the Iron Stove.
The guest paid his score, and went to bed, but in the night the host
shelter here is bad."
not perform it, and lamented his misfortune.
on she went.
_Romeo._ I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
mysteries and its strange inhabitants remains as inscrutable as
it is besides confirmed by the repetition of _beauty_ in 49. Delius, who
"Hist!" cried Holmes, and I heard the sharp click of a cocking
As she went into the yard, the cock was standing by the well, and cried:
That runaways' eyes may wink, and Romeo
In the meantime, the King's Daughter, who could also run very
With all the admired beauties of Verona.
I hurried along the road at the top of my speed without seeing
"Amontillado!"
The huntsman thought, "The salad must have already taken effect," and
153. _Afore._ Not a mere vulgarism. It is used by Capulet in iii. 4. 34
so warm he took his little hat off that the air might cool him. As the
had disappeared. The birds of the wood had picked them up as they had
wants to come in."
and I am his agent. But facts are facts, and I have twice heard
tiptoed down the passage. Then he passed through the same door as
eaten all the others. Then you may imagine how she wept over her poor
the figure in question had out-Heroded Herod, and gone beyond the
After that, she went on till she came to a tree covered with apples,
have been in London?"
They are free men, but I am banished.
'The nightingale sings from the pomegranate groves in the daytime,' says
back into the water.
re you, I'll fa you; do you note me?
shorter one being worn for ornament (see _A.W._ ii. 1. 32: "no sword
I have said that over the great Grimpen Mire there hung a dense,
The old King was standing outside by the pipe of the stove, and was
Graze where you will, you shall not house with me.
sit down to her spinning again, but fetched a broom and began to sweep
and I am yours."
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans;
With that he picked himself out a fine head of cabbage, and ate it. But
The following day, the King's Daughter asked the gardener about his
terms. In a letter in the _Academy_ for Nov. 30, 1878, Furnivall, after
England, where he established a school in the east of Yorkshire.
prepared the plans for Sir Charles, and with a contractor from
To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
had taken another wife.
The same thought had crossed my own mind. It was not as if the
one thing she should have it, and that was, leave to sleep one night
the hen began to thrust their heads beneath their wings, and the eyes
God forbid!--Where's this girl?--What, Juliet!
often pronounced as if a vowel came between the consonants; as in i. 4.
Then she gave her a little piece of hard bread, and said, "This will
refused at first to believe that it was indeed his friend
a word.
spinning-wheel, seat yourself on the shore, and spin the spool full.
11.  The Press-gang.
whole kingdom, and the strong one thrust them and the oxen harnessed to
_Enter_ CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, Nurse, _and two_ Servingmen
knowledge. I ran down the hill therefore and met the baronet at
if he had had other children; but S. is careless in these minor matters.
couple it with something; make it a word and a
that they would give him a branch. They both tried very hard, but they
see the guiding wands tonight? We planted them together, he and
Chapter 1.
looking for a Bride. He was not to choose a poor one, and did not
"He has beaten us, Watson. We are too late."
(Daniel). Some editors believe that the first quarto gives the author's
deception, everything, as long as I could still cling to the hope
rising wind. A half moon broke through the rifts of racing
was in it. Neither did any one know, for the King never took off the
Wilson, that you had among your boys a lad named Cartwright, who
evening, but they did not get out of the forest, and were very hungry,
the old hen's wings. Nothing more beautiful was ever seen in the world!
The wife of a rich man fell sick, and as she felt that her end was
The Queen, at home, went in front of the Glass and said:
_Enter the_ PRINCE _and_ Attendants
that it is not my secret, and that I cannot tell it. If it
1853.
_Cor._ iv. 7. 54: "One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail,"
power and grace, and has written about it no less admirably, remarks on
"lawyer's" (from 1st quarto), but this would also be a repetition. Other
thirst is too great."
daughter to wife."
By wrong, then she her selfe by right had Romeus praysde before," etc.
Tybert, the long-tail'd prince of cats;" and _Have with You_, etc.: "not
help from Sir Charles for the legal expenses connected with your
"_Needle, my Needle, sharp-pointed and fine,
"Oh, you fool!" said she. "Then we must all four die of hunger. You may
expected.
But the young Queen is fairer by far, I trow!_"
not which she _may_, but which she _must_ encounter, if she wake before
Life and these lips have long been separated.
which he thought to be supernatural, the other driven to his end
between two high walls of clipped hedge, with a narrow band of
not lived for years with Sherlock Holmes for nothing.
deep, and though I have not finally made up my mind whether it is
_Prince._ And for that offence
1. 40 below: "Culling of simples."
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
It is the band around my heart,
On all thy partes, from euery part reue all thy kindly strength;
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
the time of the tragedy? Surely the explanation of all this could
Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
Sir Henry. He took particular care that Sir Henry did not make
Baskerville Hall, were you not?"
"_Thou art fairer than all who are here, Lady Queen.
[Picture: The News Boy and Flying Pieman]
gun, and went out into the world.
wonderful and audacious! Not a word to show your suspicions--not a
been put upon the fire, and they were brought in with tongs, and set
well. She had a chamber built, so strong and thick that no ray could
nor is his appeal to Benvolio to "beat down their weapons" more
Get me an iron crow and bring it straight
"But what did you say to the church-door?"
("I'll not marry yet") may count only as two feet.
Here to my house bring the wooer, I pray._"
Shortly after the rebellion of 1745, the heads of three rebel noblemen
_Nurse._ They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
123, and, _J.C._ i. 1. 15.
_Juliet._ Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
_Times_ with some holes cut in it with scissors. Here is a copy
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet,
misfortune of her seven brothers."
But the tailor began to laugh and to sing, and shared all he got with
And made Verona's ancient citizens
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
"How high was it?"
No answer.  I called again--
A young country gentleman, who was never before on any thing higher than
18.  Ship-building.
bottom of wafers, then raise up a little edge on the side, and so bake
in everything until he came to think that the world was made for
world. Then she came to the Sun, but it was too hot and terrible, and
Our breakfast table was cleared early, and Holmes waited in his
dramatic form and its poetic decoration. But what an exception is the
speech, as given in the play ("If I profane," etc.), is not the
"differs by a few corrections, and more frequently by additional
4.  New London Bridge.
you to ride through; the wood is full of robbers, who would treat you
Two-Eyes answered, "Have I not reason to weep, when I have two eyes
of his task was successfully accomplished but the more difficult
shall have none for myself. Be off with you," and he left the Little
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
panelling, the stags' heads, the coats of arms upon the walls,
the dais where the family sat from the lower portion reserved for
of salt to be bound on the back of the youngest, and two servants had
sticks home to my mother," and he took one of the trees, and wrapped
Is Rosaline, that thou didst love so dear,
with the moon silvering its upper edge, swept slowly and
When he came, he already knew everything, and said, "Take off the
One morning, he rose before daybreak and went out into the open air,
gold pieces. He took them to the gardener, and said, "I give them to
their elders will also enjoy it. The Lambs' _Tales from Shakespeare_ is
But the true ground of all these piteous woes                  180
simplicity, there is that jealousy of female honour which precept and
"Who was the man?"
"What!" said the woman, "I am the King, and you are nothing but my
203. _His house._ Its sheath. See on ii, 6. 12 above.
and were curious to know what such a wonderful bird might be. And each
supernatural signe of the monstrous impietie of witches, that the water
gainsaid that he was a most wild, profane, and godless man.
in a water-spout. He quickly sprang to the shore, caught his wife by
curiosities, seventeen of the kings of England on horseback, in the suits
of the guard in two rows, each being smaller than the one before him,
more for them than was customary. And, with the money, the shoemaker
[Illustration]
some soup for the Old Man, and then I will feed the pretty little hen,
suspected what had happened. She hastened to the water, and when she
56. _Riddling._ Cf. _M.N.D._ ii. 2. 53: "Lysander riddles very
himself together in the face of what must have been a paralyzing
your horse likewise, they will assuredly kill you."
"It is dead."
We met, we woo'd, and made exchange of vow,
105. _Date._ Period, duration; as often in S. Cf. _R. of L._ 935: "To
the desert where Rapunzel lived in wretchedness. He heard a voice,
55. _Not mad, but bound_, etc. An allusion to the old-time treatment of
she was covered with it.
13. _Some meteor_, etc. Cf. _1 Hen. IV._ ii. 4. 351: "My lord, do you
journey. At parting he asked his three daughters what he should bring
space flecked over with the white cotton grass. In the middle of
as the moon rose we climbed to the top of the rocks over which
The girls had run away, but the Bear called to them, "Snow-White and
this, or if so much as one nail on the wall were wanting, he should be
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,                        189
you have an engagement.  Luchesi--"
Joringel looked through the bushes, and saw the old walls of the castle
The King commanded that all people, who were in his castle, should
Thence I saw him at once. He was on the moor path about a quarter
"I heard a cry also. That was what brought me out. I was uneasy
bloody minds of usurers," which may have anticipated Shakespeare in
I have my wish.
like a thief in the night.  And one by one dropped the revellers in the
trembling, before us. His dark eyes, glaring out of the white
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
A small fly or moth had fluttered across our path, and in an
been the Angel who watches over good children.
But, like a misbehav'd and sullen wench,
walks with a limp?"
clasps_" (Knight).
"We must think of something else," said the King; "keep your shoes on
force, a fine net drawn round us with infinite skill and
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!"
The cook, however, came up to them, and when she saw the pond she lay
their wicked lusts, using auricular confession (the key of whoredom and
then I remembered the pile of papers and bills with which his
the children in swaddling-clothes into the town. So for once, I can
outfit having now all arrived.
wife was overjoyed at their good fortune. But curiosity left her no
At home, abroad, alone, in company,
half-full of water. A litter of empty tins showed that the place
and return, but for his unexpected detention. I see no difficulty,
skin).
she did not return home.
We had arranged no plan of campaign, but the baronet is a man to
stained with blood, she stuck her hand into a thorn-bush, and pricked
Being our kinsman, if we revel much.
leader we could lay our hands straight upon the person who sent
not well;" _Cor._ i. 5. 18: "My work hath yet not warm'd me," etc.
good fortune to befall her ugly and lazy daughter. She had to seat
"Remove your siege from my unyielding heart;
]
_Romeo._ He jests at scars that never felt a wound.--
whistling upon a leaf, an ugly old crone came up, who spoke to him and
Here in my house do him disparagement;
Now, it came to the turn of the third son to watch. He was quite ready,
Oh! that I could see again
And yet it may seem a small matter in itself. You are aware that
night again went with them. Then everything was done just as it had
away.
apart from the hound, there is the fact of the human agency in
three weeks before the fatal event. He chanced to be at his hall
with writing upon it. I raised it, and this was what I read,
by A. Conan Doyle
other. "Good gracious! what are you doing up there?"
know. But first I had the unpleasant duty of breaking the news to
_Paris._ God shield I should disturb devotion!--
thought. "And yet we manage to make ourselves fairly happy, do we
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous.
But the Princess said that the horse was for himself, and that he was
Barrymore exactly as directed."
SCENE III.--1. _Fearful._ Full of fear, afraid; Cf. _M.N.D._ v. 1. 101,
The King replied, "Then his life also must be staked, so that his head
But in the night, they resumed their natural human shapes.
But to the earth some special good doth give;
she went before the Looking-Glass, and said:
HARPER & BROTHERS.
dry them," said the Cock. "But guests are coming for Sunday, so the
"No, sir; I have made inquiry all over the hotel, but I can hear
_Juliet._ I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
object for itself in man and woman; and yet there is a difference in
path to seize it, and had we not been there to drag him out he
parts unsuitable for children have been omitted.
[Illustration]
was to set her up in a typewriting business."
was lying fast asleep therein. And he called the others, who came
Hall in the middle."
she has learnt no evil, but has preserved her purity of heart. You,
that is an admirable sentiment?"
226. _To call hers, exquisite._ "That is, to call hers, which is
between his lips. Several rolls of paper lay around him.
into the dishes. And before half an hour was over they had already
hunger, for no one has ever either seen him again or heard of him.
68.  Covent Garden.
of them to eat, two to your horse, and bury two of them in the ground.
When the huntsman saw that, he went back and fetched three men to come
iv. 1(48), 2(12), 3(56); v. 3(13). Whole no. 541.
"Caught cold, Watson?" said he.
Adam Bell, as he assumes.
parted from each other of their own accord, and let him pass unhurt.
original performances, but even felt no reluctance to introduce them in
1567, Mary Magdalene says to one of her attendants, '_Horeson_, I
(1897) and Imogen Clark's _Will Shakespeare's Little Lad_ (1897) equally
"Will you contradict me again?" said the woman. "See that you go,
would.  But I hope no one will blame the watchman, and do as bad himself;
51. _Determine of._ Decide. Cf. _2 Hen IV._ iv. 1. 164:--
one in _Rich. II._ iii. 3. 166 fol.
ground, in order that he might lie uncomfortably, and soon wake up
Let us hope no lives will be lost, for it seems rather dangerous to be
fairy-queen has been discovered, but S. no doubt learned it from the
drawing closer around that lean-jawed pike.
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
_Enter a_ Servant
of ducks were swimming. The two brothers wanted to catch a couple and
common place of execution for criminals.  In the centre of the place now
Lady, lady, pray you look;
Then the King spoke, 'My Daughters, I know not when my last hour may
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
_Apothecary._ Put this in any liquid thing you will,
tree belongs to me." And she climbed up, and with the greatest ease
dared to put our whole weight upon it. We had taken the
or climax. Steevens quotes Markham, _English Arcadia_, 1607: "the high
that Romeo "merely stepped to the back of the stage at the beginning of
this most interesting problem which has been submitted to us this
bank of the trees and the lighter expanse of the moor, for the
Among the graves I leapt about,
it. The barren scene, the sense of loneliness, and the mystery
But whatever the true explanation of Barrymore's movements might
himself on a stone, and wept. And while he was thus sitting, the King
"With Grethel."
nothing to eat but what they left, and did everything that they could
"Oh, I'll behave well. Good-bye, Mother."
_Abram._ Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
door to door. Two-Eyes made them welcome, and was kind to them, and
conclusions. We are certainly making some progress. So far as the
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,                      10
[_Throws them down._
upon which we still want light--but it is coming all the same."
Now, a private pen or ink-bottle is seldom allowed to be in such
Washington's _Diary_ (1760) it is used of mares. According to the
into so painful and perplexing a situation. Schmidt makes _stratagem_
The Witch asked, "Who are you, Countryman, and what is your business?"
youth, and a great feast was made ready to which all the people and all
Therefore, out of thy long-experienc'd time,                      60
appointment with him at the very place and hour that he met his
"If that be true," said the man, "then I can well do you a favor."
"But," said she to him, "come back to me in the evening. I must shut
Leyland's _Shakespeare Country_ (enlarged ed. 1903) are copiously
As soon as the four minstrels had done, they put out the light, and
to sigh for some Junonian Rosaline, nay, for half a dozen Rosalines,
The Monument so tall,
Two modern painted windows complete the decorations of this venerable
unuttered even when no one could have heard it. As spoken to a
And turn'd that black word death to banishment.
They are free men, but I am banished."
he cut out the shoes which he wished to make the next morning. And as
The next day when they awoke, the sun was already high and shone down
and began to boil up from below, so that it threw up bubbles. And such
eighteen, or even sixteen. As it is, she has not been harmed by the
boys and girls; and may they have continued delight in the beautiful
Princess was left standing below.
which I had the good fortune to help you?"
101. S. uses _set abroach_ only in a bad sense. Cf. 2 _Hen. IV._ iv. 2.
The children tried very hard, but they could not pull the beard out, it
But when I came, some minute ere the time
name a by-word through the West.  It chanced that this Hugo
The post-boy galloping away,
COPYRIGHT, 1879 AND 1898, BY
sleep a night in the chamber where the Bridegroom sleeps."
the worse," except in the punctuation, which is more correct, and the
After a year or two, it came to pass that the King's Son rode through
me bread for a week."
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come.
I was eating in haste I swallowed a ring which lay under the Queen's
bread and a clean collar. What does man want more? He has given
he saw that they were his brothers, who had been playing all kinds of
and laid his sack beneath him for a pillow. When the innkeeper thought
She wept the whole night and cried, "I set you free when you were in an
I am the drudge, and toil in your delight.
suppose one can tone down to it, but I feel a bit out of the
beauty. The woman who approached me was certainly that, and of a
With my water-cresses young.
"That you should dig all round my garden for me, to-morrow."
FORMERLY HEAD MASTER OF THE HIGH SCHOOL
heaven;" and _R. of L._ 119: "her vaulty prison" (that is, Night's).
was apprenticed to a huntsman. When he had learnt everything, and had
will happen to me?" cried she; "what will my husband say to this?" She
speak to him about it," said he. "Two or three times I have heard
_Traitor's_ Gate, through which state-prisoners were conveyed to their
fact and to keep silent upon what she knew. In this I fancy that
not possibly have done had I been living in the Hall, and I
upon these dark places.
bridge was PS80,000.
My poor friend found it impossible to reply for many minutes.
the flag upon the roof.
whole of them, thirteen in number, took horse and started
_Romeo._ A most courteous exposition.
Glass and asked:
Romeo's mind. He had nothing left but to die; and everything connected
"I think it unlikely that he waited at the moor-gate every
_Juliet._ O comfortable friar! where is my lord?--
the vaults.  I passed down a long and winding staircase, requesting him
been on the night before. The western window through which he had
"The matter is a very private one."
hotel."
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
_2d Watchman_: v. 3(1). Whole no. 1.
see the stub of a cigarette marked Bradley, Oxford Street, I know
as a young girl. Thus they both sat for two hours, and exchanged never
check me if I make any material mistake. The sending of this
the little animal and led it on; and she walked deeper and deeper into
That you shall all repent the loss of mine.
scarcely touched the sexton, when they were held fast. And now there
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.--                 30
palace, and I will try what she can do."
satisfied?"
my secret and that I could not tell it to you. But now you have
on his way back to London again!"
Doth bylde a tombe, or digge a vault, that beares the housholdes name:
Brooke's poem:[4]--
luminous, ghastly, and spectral. I have cross-examined these men,
But on the fifth morning, the poor tailor could no longer stand up, and
we turned together down the path.
he touched with the flower was freed from enchantment. He also dreamt
moody, and as soon moody to be moved.
was asleep too. But it blinked, and could see everything very well. And
him. On the way the Little Man showed him treasures hidden there, and
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?
you go?" Then he put on his trousers and ran away like a madman.
first scene, where the word is a dissyllable. The only variation from
a couple of leaves at once, and put them in her mouth. Hardly had she
What say ye all now?_"
a single file.  In the first instance we use the same index number for
he know?"
"You think, then, that some dog pursued Sir Charles, and that he
return.  No?  Then I must positively leave you. But I must first render
When the Knight came nearer he was a handsome lord, who stopped and
Holmes. "I confess that I share Dr. Mortimer's belief that it
examples of _single-soled_ = mean, contemptible. _Singleness_ here =
years, and then I will come and see if your perverse spirit is broken."
[Picture: The Sailing Match]
bear it, I must be there. They shall not find it so easy to catch me!"
humour the true bent," etc.
to his Ass, and it rained gold pieces, and he had nothing to do but
And thou art come.
round her, but it seemed to me that she was straining away from
many parents.  It was not far from London Bridge that little Tommy Dellow
fell at his feet, he at last gave in. But no sooner had the maiden
something to you."
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true                    100
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Holmes.
that I should certainly be suspected if the facts came out. He
To see thy son and heir more early down.
When midnight drew near, she saw in the distance a small light, and
On the third day when the King had ridden out hunting, the boy went
Go to the fire, and cook us our supper."
that purpose" (Schmidt). In the three other instances in which S. has
net round the young baronet. Holmes himself had said that no more
away that also.
can go no further."
"_My little Bird, with the necklace red,
in this direction.  There is also a grand archway across, over the
_Enter_ SAMPSON _and_ GREGORY, _of the house of Capulet, with swords and
feels almost guilty and ashamed at having intruded upon the sacred
_Juliet._ Art thou gone so? my lord, my love, my friend!
the whole world."
number of public charities. The residue all went to Sir Henry."
"I will take a bag with lentils," said he; "the seeds are larger than
"But what did you say to the foot-bridge when we went over it?" asked
"There is a realm in which the most acute and most experienced of
White remarks: "I have never seen a Juliet on the stage who appeared to
at the wedding festival. After which he was commanded to quit the town
equestrian statue upon its pedestal, was a mounted soldier, dark
legend. I assure you that there is a reign of terror in the
Green earthen pots, bladders and musty seeds,
She would have nothing to do with it, and for a time Stapleton
in the stream and drank, and was not allowed to drink out of the golden
sitting beneath it, drawing beer just at the very time when it fell, he
sister Elizabeth.]"
which I seemed to recognize the taste of the lady. As I looked
Let down thy hair._"
glow than flame.
_Romeo._                         So thrive my soul--
find ourselves at the end of all our difficulties. To this one
speculation. More wise than those who go on until the wheel
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains.
Even Baskerville fell silent and pulled his overcoat more closely
She went in and asked for a place. She knew, however, that the King's
So there is one of our small mysteries cleared up. It is
this convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he would risk
magnificent large garden, too, with the most beautiful flowers and
followed him. When I came round the balcony he had reached the
If the wind blows, pray guard your eyes,
forward, while I followed immediately at his heels.  In an instant he
on ii. 4. 184 and iii. 1. 89 below.
After our great good cheer."
In the morning, when he awoke, he began to seek over hill and dale to
59. _Good gentle youth_, etc. "The gentleness of Romeo was shown before
"What does it suggest?"
upon a shadowy sea. Holmes struck his hand passionately upon the
shivering. Somewhere there, on that desolate plain, was lurking
Holmes. "On the contrary, I have half a sovereign for you if you
read in his eyes that he took the matter more seriously. "The
especially merry over a good King, who stood quite high up in the row,
_Friar Laurence._ O woful sympathy!
Which we as easily tore unto the earth
"Why not?" inquired the old King.
my children alone in the forest?--the wild animals would soon come and
"Might I trouble you for it--the inside page, please, with the
than there was a more violent movement than before in the depths of
utmost importance that Sir Charles's heir should settle at
59.  The Milkmaid.
"It is quite delightful here," said he, "but I am so tired that I
Of all the brave churches I ever did see,
And I liked it all the time.
And then the marriage of the King's Son and Briar-Rose was celebrated
And if we meet we shall not scape a brawl,
And that my master slew him.                             [_Exit._
What simpleness is this!--I come, I come!             [_Knocking._
And as she was thus forsaken by all the world, she went forth into the
a cab he was all ready to follow them. It has, however, one
Then the soldier pulled out his pipe and lighted it at the Blue Light.
_Distemperature_ = disorder. Cf. _C. of E._ v. 1. 82: "Of pale
The youth picked it up, and the next morning took it to the King and
"an exhal'd meteor."
Then he was immediately restored to his human shape.
sir," said he at last, "that it was not merely for the purpose of
"Alas, Wife, why do you wish to be Emperor?"
like with their papers and their bottles. Both cases decided, Dr.
emptied over her.
89. _Outrage._ A trisyllable here. Cf. _entrance_ in i. 4. 8.
"Pass your hand," I said, "over the wall; you cannot help feeling the
_October_ 16_th_.--A dull and foggy day with a drizzle of rain.
They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
_complement_ is unknown to the orthography of the old eds. See on ii. 2.
were lit for the wedding-feast. But the door was made of green wood
"I myself put it round your neck, and I myself fastened it. If you do
Cf. Longfellow, _The Spanish Student_: "Ay, soft emerald eyes;" and
Once when they were thus moving onwards, no little feather and no
his pocket. Then they all set out together on the way to the forest.
lands near the Baskerville estate. But the young maiden,
Norway, for planks and masts; and copper from Cornwall, to cover its
had brought thither by the golden thread. He alighted, stepped over the
behind stood the young King's servant, Faithful Henry. Faithful Henry
Again and again I cross-questioned her, but I could never get
125. _Is it e'en so?_ The 1st quarto has here the stage-direction:
sonnet to Shakespeare by John Weever, written probably in 1595 or 1596,
But the King and the Queen, with their six brothers, lived many years
parents in the match. The Friar, even at the first suggestion of the
mentioned?"
night shepherds upon the moorlands, and they cried to him
objection to my running my finger along your parietal fissure? A
"legal fine print" to get files of sizes less than the headers. Please
Then he went and stood before her, and said, "Ah, Wife, and now you are
_Enter_ PARIS, _and his_ Page _bearing flowers and a torch_
when she inquired about her bed, they answered:
control."
_Nurse._ Well, you have made a simple choice; you
As I approached the hut, walking as warily as Stapleton would do
I went at once to my room and drew up my report of the morning's
three-stringed fiddle. Cf. Milton, _L'All._ 94: "And the jocund rebecks
[Illustration]
The old tailor would not quite believe, but nevertheless got the
The Donkey said, "If so, we had better get up and go on, for the
But Romeo may not, he is banished.                                40
for school libraries.
"I just don't attempt to explain it. It seems the very maddest,
"Because I had suggested that he should come over. When he did
such instruments as belonged to one family. If, for example, only viols
Behind the house, too, there was a great courtyard, with stables
literally to the partisans long disused, and figuratively to their
1. 245, 246, _W.T._ iv. 1. 27, 28, and _Lear_, i. 4. 341, 344.]
Ado_, iii. 1. 70, _M.N.D._ v. 1. 83, etc. Cf. _simple_ in ii. 5. 38 and
"Well, I seem to have come into an inheritance with a vengeance,"
for carriages, and a covered path on each side for foot-passengers.  It
The Bear took no heed of his words, but gave the wicked creature a
matter, nor could any inquiry clear it up. Another item had been
corruption of _Juliana_. _Gill-flirt_ was the more common form.
expert in Europe--"
"Quite happy," said she, but there was no ring of conviction in
wish their intimacy to ripen into love, and I have several times
_Fr. Dict._ (ed. 1632): "_Nique, faire la nique_, to threaten or defie,
country, and hid himself in the thicket in the meadow. There he soon
After this the robbers did not trust themselves in the house again. But
Mrs. Jameson remarks: "The old woman, true to her vocation, and fearful
looke for (being there much better set forth then I have or can dooe)
for sale, and how much he wanted for it.
my capital was irretrievably swallowed up. And yet, if it were
hound, but not such a hound as mortal eyes have ever seen. Fire
_news_, _tidings_ (see on iii. 5. 105 above), etc. Cf. _A.W._ ii. 2. 9,
had returned to my room might mean that he had gone out to keep
"I may not tell you that, and I dare not lament my sorrows to any human
The flood which had overtaken them could not destroy them, but it tore
"None in particular."
its fellows that lay upon the mould.
gathering, under it too.
behind, therefore, not without some prickings of conscience, and
who indulged in the more remote gaieties of the other apartments.
was not half full with it. "Bring more," cried he, "these few crumbs
The second:
meat and drink to her heart's content. And as he loved her so much he
99. _Two, two_, etc. This is given to Mercutio in most of the early
95. _Natural._ Fool, idiot. Cf. _Temp._ iii. 2. 37 and _A.Y.L._ i. 2.
"_Turn and peep, turn and peep,
Who in this land is the fairest of all?_"
_Abram._ No better.
thought to herself, "Would that I had a child as white as snow, as red
as chance would have it, they drew near each other. They met in a
night came, the Lion turned into a handsome man, and their wedding
called out quite kindly, "Come in,--I know you already."
But good fortune did not last long. The King had daughters in plenty,
his line suddenly went down, far down below, and when he drew it up
_Nurse._ Ah, mocker! that's the dog's name; R is                 200
easy to trace than a schoolmaster. There are scholastic agencies
referring to his former citations in favour of _runaways_ = "runagates,
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years.
was of common quality, greyish in colour. The address, "Sir Henry
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
you seems of little worth. But all depends on your making a sensible
it were striveing to get away; also it is taken from her striving with
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
And when she had grown up her father said, "We will get her married."
such well-marked supra-orbital development. Would you have any
remained pious and good. When winter came the snow spread a white sheet
myself than to anyone else. But in any case it was a blow to him
water in my golden cup," for she had long ago forgotten the girl's ill
then she and her waiting-woman were led into it and walled up, and
"For euery houshold, if it be of any fame;
enclosed with rails, many martyrs were burned at the stake, for their
The palace of the Capulets is to this day pointed out in Verona. It is
man unless they are careful. By thunder, if that chap can't find
basket on his head, are the portraits drawn from the life of little
_Juliet._ 'T is almost morning; I would have thee gone,
to be sure fills my eyes," said he, "but the bread does not fill my
_Juliet._ Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?   21
171. _God ye god-den._ See on i. 2. 57 above.
material.  Their form is uncommon, having full sleeves, and short, full
horse as his Bride, and rode away with her. But when they passed by the
go away I will give you a piece of good advice. Be careful about two
chiming clock and the rustle of the ivy on the wall.
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
from human beings?"
129. _For Mercutio's soul_, etc. The passage calls to mind one similar
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
must be clean: therefore do not hinder me in my work. Have no care for
The Night Wind then said to her, "I will advise you. Go to the Red
behaviour. _Gill_ or _Jill_ was a familiar term for a woman, as _Jack_
_Juliet._ Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
Then said the first, "My gift is, that every day she shall grow more
Then the Queen looked at her with a dreadful look, and laughed aloud,
The poor soldier fell without injury on the moist ground, and the
[Illustration: SHE COMBED HER LONG BLACK HAIR]
The King dared not speak to her, but on the next night he watched
again opened, and the Little Man appeared, and said, "What will you
themselves be turned aside by that, but climbed the tree and fetched
but the third said, "Dear Father, I should like a Singing, Soaring
"your sights," etc.
mickle blame," etc. _Powerful grace_ = "efficacious virtue" (Johnson);
table covered with wine and roast meat, while the plates and glasses
poorest, and at the same time the richest."
volume as an educational book as well as one for scholars; for which
also lead to the same conclusion.
and showed her the way.
the geese.
dreams live, and writhe to and fro more merrily than ever, taking hue
never did them any harm, but came close to them trustfully. The little
"Ha, you see it now. My eyes have been trained to examine faces
princox." Cotgrave renders "_un jeune estourdeau superbe_" by "a young
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
I the gaping crowd amuse,
Both deepe it is, and long and large, where thou shalt rest, my daughter,
3. _Lay thee all along._ That is, at full length. Cf. _A.Y.L._ ii. 1.
Witch proposed that he should stay one night more. "To-morrow, you
Winner of the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology, with
"You our King!" cried the birds still more angrily. "Do you think your
"Well, it was up there. Come now, Watson, didn't you think
stretched down her hand and wanted to take the Blue Light away from him.
Your worship in that sense may call him man.
both of them a pair of stockings. Do you make them two little pairs of
the _beauty's pen_, which hath _writ_ there. Then the obscurities of the
So Hans set out, and she showed him the way to the mill. She had,
nothing to eat.  So, one day, I thought to myself, thinks I, 'I've a vast
by the shoemaker's table, took all the work which was cut out before
themselves upon his knee, and said, "We are the three young ravens whom
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjur'd,
you are in a tight place. No one can say so more confidently than
_Nurse._ Marry, farewell!--I pray you, sir, what
Then Rapunzel let down the braids of her hair, and the Witch climbed up
oppression. It is idle to criticise her dissembling submission to her
be heard. At last he came to the tower, and opened the door into the
West Indies. The man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is
With these she traveled onwards, and when she came to the Glass
Which is in West Smithfield, and where all persons accidentally injured,
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring."
chickens all of gold. They ran about chirping, and crept again under
With such name as "Nevermore."
1589:--
And know their spring, their head, their true descent;
This uncommon scene is well described in the following lines.
first draft of the play, and the second the form it took after he had
She speaks, yet she says nothing; what of that?
[Picture: St. Dunstan's Church]
_Friar Laurence._ For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
V._, and occasionally in this play. They must not be confounded with
"But I have only just come."
observe the deception.
two facts of great importance, the one that Mrs. Laura Lyons of
The Little Man took him by the hand, and led him through an underground
wall of one of the houses, with the following inscription in old English
"How can you say that?"
"The devil has told you that! the devil has told you that!" cried the
among the bones.  Come, we will go back ere it is too late.  Your
_Romeo._ Whose house?
To hear him nam'd, and cannot come to him,
when he saw it, he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it,
The little detective smiled. "As long as I have my trousers I
monarch;" _T. of S._ iv. 3. 52: "my honey love," etc.
frightened me into remaining silent."
have a hand in the affairs of men--"
departure.
meshes.
struck shone upon his clotted fingers and upon the ghastly pool
black-bearded spy in the hansom, the loss of the new brown boot,
"_Little green Waiting-Maid,
first is evident from the way in which he took his wife with him
gold piece shone in his eyes. The next day, he found another, and so
Like softest music to attending ears!
"Yes, indeed," said the man, "now let it be; and we will live in this
[Illustration]
A father once called his three sons before him. He gave to the first a
The children were, however, still awake and had heard the conversation.
for your daughter, into the bargain."
Then they knew his voice and waited. And when he came up to them,
groan, like life and death's departing," etc. So _depart with_ = part
He had started running swiftly over the moor, and I had followed
staring at it in amazement.
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
despatched to Mantua until that morning, he would have had time to go
spread itself whisperingly around, there arose at length from the whole
At length, he took it into his head to go back to his father, whose
entirely of gold.
want to know anything."
Why should we longer cobblers be?_"
other undated; and it is doubtful which was the earlier. The undated
testator."
Hans takes the needle, sticks it into a hay-cart, and follows the cart
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
i. 2. 131. _Pluck_ is a favourite word with S.
Than this black mud that's in my spade."
86. _Scathe._ Injure. S. uses the verb nowhere else; but cf. the noun in
nurse's dispraise of her lover as by her wicked, time-serving advice.
that which she carried out in action on the stage. She says: "For the
had been associated with the grim legend of the Baskervilles, all
Some time had passed, and when the eldest son, month after month,
145. _Skains-mates._ A puzzle to the commentators. As _skein_ is an
"I have, at least, a well-polished, silver-plated coffee-pot in
said the King, 'how much you do love me, and thus I shall see what you
The shoe it is too small for her,
and hanged; and Friar Laurence permitted to retire to a hermitage, where
There are frequently found cinders for firing, ashes and breeze for
us now and so atone."
H. Snowden Ward's _Shakespeare's Town and Times_ (2d ed. 1903) and John
bold and fiery, and his conceptions glowed with barbaric lustre.  There
"Dame," said he, "I can go no farther. I want to rest a little."
swelling plain, mottled with the green patches of rushes. Nothing
was able to purchase leather for two pairs of shoes.
Furness states that in Edwin Booth's acting copy this scene of Peter and
This is in Fleet Street, and had a very narrow escape from the great fire
Court lying asleep, and by the throne lay the King and Queen.
'lady, lady, lady!'              [_Exeunt Mercutio and Benvolio._
The eldest had apprenticed himself to a joiner, and learnt
effigy tonight. I told the police last time they did it that they
unarmed man who was running away.
Suddenly the door opened, and a very, very old woman, leaning on
sigh--_O me!_ that is, _me O!_ the half of his name" (Seymour). It may
observance. Cf. the use of _solemn_ = ceremonious, formal; as in _Macb._
"The flower she touch'd on dipt and rose,
town to buy needles and thread, and laces and ribbons. The road led
you know the hotel ink and the hotel pen, where it is rare to get
_Lady Capulet_. A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
parish-beadles before them.  Several thousands of poor children are
than all the treasures in the world."
then to show the dreary curves of the moor, with thin, silver
five-forty. Lestrade.
deer, and hares, and everything that could be desired.
perfectly interfused. There is not a suggestion of sensuality on Romeo's
undertook the enterprise, but all forfeited their lives.
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
"Good heaven! Did no one examine?"
GENERAL COMMENTS ON THE PLAY
tomorrow, when he is engaged, if I remember your report aright,
The four companions now sat down at the table, well content with what
We shall have many a rich laugh about it at the palazzo--he! he!
ACT III
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
_Apothecary._ Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
Be 't for my bridall or my buriall;"
Charles Baskerville's death several people saw this apparition
prudent and sensible. Besides, I will take some peas with me, and strew
107. _Clos'd._ Enclosed, shut up. Cf. v. 2. 30 below: "clos'd in a dead
beautiful plants that can be grown in England, either in open nurseries,
Every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for
"_They whisper in his eare_;" that is, whisper the reason of their
Into the toun unto a potecary."
She was silent and her face was still very pale. At last she
of Commons, to make room for those monstrous protuberances, without
etc. The accent in S. is variable. Cf. the adjective in iii. 2. 64
bundle on his back, and hung the two baskets on his arm. "See, it is
the gate, and because this time it was a matter of life and death to
should a man walk on tiptoe down the alley?"
by Edgar Allan Poe
(Steevens).
I thought that she had fainted, but she recovered herself by a
"Come, the bath is ready. It will do you good, and give you fresh
a favourite dog, which I should describe roughly as being larger
he would be able to come out of the water! And now he is here, and
86, 87.  Greenwich and Chelsea Hospitals, and Pensioners,
line; as in the 103d line of the first scene: "Here were the servants of
29. _Bear a brain._ Have a brain, that is, a good memory.
likewise became a Donkey, and ran out to the Old Woman. And the dish
seem to have before us the whole of her previous education and habits:
sheep of the family. He came of the old masterful Baskerville
her go hungry!" and in his anger, he took the yard-measure from the
Three Musicians.
taken this grim legend very seriously. His ingenious mind
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw Love,
narrow granite bridge and skirted a noisy stream which gushed
her dear children.
church to pieces, and bring the chandelier home with you?"
Despised substance of divinest show!
than it was spread, and covered with the most exquisite dishes. Then
very same path. When she got to the oven, the bread cried again:
Little Snow-White was so hungry and thirsty, that she ate some
industry produces the means of procuring wealth sufficient to live in a
single individual before.  And the rumour of this new presence having
"If I had only been there!" he cried. "It is evidently a case of
_Re-enter_ JULIET, _above_
"That depends on whether you are going on the moor," said I.
hatred, and he saw that she would betray him. He tied her up,
was in the midst of her cutting, a splendid carriage came driving up,
When he reached home, the two other apprentices were there again, and
her keeper (see on ii. 2. 159 above). To _bate_ was to flutter or flap
_Mercutio._ A sail, a sail!
Hans takes the goat, ties its legs, and puts it in his pocket. When he
pearls and diamonds for the two eldest. But he had sought everywhere
man, with a long nose like a beak, which jutted out between two
The train pulled up at a small wayside station and we all
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light.
and in strength.  I did this, and the clamourer grew still.
more beautiful than the other. They all slept together in one chamber,
"_With what should I be satisfied?
dilapidated opening which served as a door. All was silent
In which his ioyes had been so scant, and sorrowes aye so ryfe:
other; yet you feel that the sweet girlish lingering and busy movement
90. _A lightning before death._ "A last blazing-up of the flame of
_Benvolio._ The date is out of such prolixity.
was gone.
him with her face averted. He stooped his head to hers, and she
Soc._ 1877-79, p. 194) as follows:--
78. _Fond._ Foolish (cf. iii. 3. 52 above), as opposed to _reason_.
67. _Content thee._ "Compose yourself, keep your temper" (Schmidt). Cf.
retained a sufficient number to illustrate the curious and significant
Mercutio uses the term in sport, and adds a quibble on _field-bed_,
goaded her husband until in his impatience he revealed that all was
"Ah, Wilson, I see you have not forgotten the little case in
_Mercutio._ If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.
stroked the dear animal and asked, "Goat, are you satisfied?"
"Well, now--so it is!"
6. _Familiar._ A quadrisyllable here.
The wagonette swung round into a side road, and we curved upward
"It's the weirdest, strangest thing that ever I heard in my
a much broader and more Western dialect than any which we had
tragic history. Da Porto says: "Their fathers, weeping over the bodies
aside from the forest into the open country, he pursued it and at last
she saw that the Prince was gazing in, blushed all over her face, let
she bid you, for her lips are closed, and she cannot speak: it is too
the collection and for all the entries in that collection.  Let us know
If I was compelled to leave you without much news during the
On euery syde aboue were set, and eke beneath,
"Then I answer, certainly not."
So they sat down, and when Dunderhead pulled out his cinder-cake, it
surely for nothing more than for the words in which Juliet's reply [to
the Fox already, and said, "I will tell you further what you have to
overtakes its redresser.  It is equally unredressed when the avenger
period.  Within these few years, great quantities of salmon have been
maiden had slipped on the old skin and vanished, as does a light blown
211. _Grief of my son's exile._ Cf. _Much Ado_, iv. 2. 65: "and upon the
_Friar Laurence._ Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
"Tell me, Watson. What do they say of it?"
the rain beat in her face, and the wind tossed her long hair about.
candle. "It was the window, sir. I go round at night to see that
[Picture: The Bellman]
As that of true and faithful Juliet.
2. 36, etc. _Gave us the counterfeit_ = played a trick on us.
it, and go toward the door.
"A sign," he said, "a sign."
were good with me, I shared what I had with you. My trade is of that
No other allusion of earlier date than the publication of the first
in her Bridegroom's chamber. The Bride gave her permission because the
Trust to 't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.          [_Exit._
Then said the apprentice, "I will let mercy take the place of justice,
"Chaste Phoebe spake for purest azure dyes,
No, no!--this shall forbid it.--Lie thou there.--
7.  A Spanish morning star: the points were poisoned, to keep people from
great, black beast, shaped like a hound, yet larger than
The innkeeper pricked up his ears. "What in the world can that be?"
So stumblest on my counsel?
to enter London in the evening, after the lamps were lighted, was so
the means to do so. And now, sir, perhaps I had best show you to
to the line, and so off full cry in the moonlight over the
but the inside also.  The whispering gallery, the great bell, the
_Juliet._ O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face;
for they did not know by which way to go home. The sun was half above
repeated the words.
As he was coming from this churchyard side.
below.
away, and no one would have pity on them.
is suffering from unrequited love for Olivia, but later finds his Juliet
in their travels.
opened it and saw that it was Haensel and Grethel, she said, "You
"Each of them said she loved him best. 'Can you not express to me,'
grew big and had to draw beer, and the pickaxe fell down.
could, before the morrow, point out the thief, he himself should be
And in this state she gallops night by night                      70
passions whereby our family has suffered so grievously may not
condition that I could get a divorce from my husband. He has lied
So that among the monumentes that in Verona been,
"No, sir, it crumbled all to bits after we moved it."
of the family legend, and there are the repeated reports from
play it again."
and only an absent-minded one who leaves his stick and not his
hour and a quarter.
to himself, "The Wolf wants to deceive some one," and refused. But the
"Yes," replied the son, "but it is no common ass, but a Gold-Ass. When
_Benvolio._ A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
Who drinks of me, a Tiger be!_"
Hardly was the word spoken, before he heard a whirring of wings in
this respect between the sexes, though only to be known by a perception
of evening, therefore, he let himself down again. But when he had
continues till all the company take part in it, when Dun is extricated
Perhaps the streets of no city in the world are so well lighted as those
wants to carry you away?"
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
"To Grethel, Mother."
valuables under their clothes, and were going off with their booty,
ROMEO AND JULIET                                          27
the water.
door for him, and the Bear was hurrying out, he caught against the bolt
should be noticed that though this is the first interview of the lovers,
talk! He lives in the water with the other frogs and croaks, and can be
man. I am peppered, I warrant, for this world.--A
cargoes.  Whoever goes to Billingsgate, at market-time, must expect to be
to it:
Affection makes him false, he speaks not true.                   180
The King said, "My dear Child, I have given away my kingdom, what shall
desperate game. And one more question, Dr. Mortimer. Supposing
more so, for then she would not get up in the morning. Neither did
quarters, it is impossible for me to be absent from London for an
upwards of four hundred families lost all their possessions, and many of
description here, Juliet could not have been much more than a year old
lonely man upon the tor and could not feel the thrill which his
than one place, unmindful of his canon that 'your four negatives make
that's enough."
before me and tell his name." He gave the order that if the Knight who
would do if he were here."
cages, with iron gates before them, there is no danger, if people keep
The memory of so perfect, sound, and so approved love,
put another on, and _whirr, whirr, whirr,_ three times round, and the
her things to eat and drink. So when Two-Eyes set out the next time,
was that which had been suggested by Sir Henry, that if the
And there, where no refuge or hut could be found,
here, tarry for the mourners, and stay dinner.         [_Exeunt._
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint!
on that forbidding moor a difficult and dangerous quest should
the bones. When at last the clanking subsided, I resumed the trowel,
and would lead a lonely life without her, but it would seem the
gathered there; if Juliet be the one, well and good. He has already
brood-goose" (breeding goose).
view of the man who called himself Stapleton was simple and
we were likely to be needed. That telegram from London, if
the first boot which was procured for him was a new one and,
"Come," I said, with decision, "we will go back; your health is
white fog. It was drifting slowly in our direction and banked
two children. The boy was called Haensel and the girl, Grethel. He had
porters in the city, for which they wear a ticket as a badge of
"When he left me."
10.  The Custom House.
it a little child was sitting. His mother had fallen asleep under the
The man's face became openly defiant. "It is my business, and not
One day he entered a village wherein he saw a maiden, who was so
know it."
tell me that it is our friend Sir Henry!" He hurried past me and
whence it came, and then we knew that we were indeed very close.
"And I must satisfy them."
29. _Division._ "The breaking of a melody, or its descant, into small
_Gregory._ No, marry; I fear thee!
and unbound her hair which was like pure gold. Conrad saw it and
By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.--
indiscriminately. See quotation in note on i. 1. 28 above.
fared just like the others. So long as he stayed on the mainland, there
there such a single-minded enthusiast as he! The Stapletons came
framed by the window.
"Here are your reports, my dear fellow, and very well thumbed, I
"And what the errand is even a county constable could guess. But
drawn dagger, and had approached, in rapid impetuosity, to within three
96. _Temper._ Compound, mix. Cf. _Ham._ v. 2. 339: "It is a poison
For even a dray-horse can feel on his back;
But the eyelids of the Prince grew heavy as lead, and he fell asleep.
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,                        20
again."
invited her to dance, he said, "She is my partner."
pilgrim, lips that they must use--in prayer!' And when Romeo fairly gets
within the door.
with an exclamation of horror. The gleam of the match which he
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
sliding scenes. Juliet's bed was behind these curtains, and when they
this man were inside it I should find out from his own lips, at
things. Buy no gallows'-flesh, and do not sit at the edge of any well."
in order to make sure that Barrymore was really here. I have
_Servant._ Up.
"I have nothing left that I could give," answered the girl.
The stage was likewise strewn with rushes. Steevens quotes Dekker, _Guls
professional but rather slovenly fashion, for his frock-coat was
_1 Watch._ Hold him in safety till the prince come hither.
was taken into the forest where she was torn to pieces by wild beasts,
This is to be seen in Cannon Street, against the wall of St. Swithin's
least sound. It was incredible how slowly the hours crawled by,
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
accession; and it was opened for public business on the 12th of May,
where my master had failed.
In the Moonlight He Saw a Bird Whose Feathers Were Shining
"I want a strong steed, for I am going to the wars."
very cheap!"
When they had dined, the table was carried away, and the Cat said,
PARIS, a young nobleman, kinsman to the prince.
you. One speaks well after much drinking, but not after much thirst.
or compulsion), etc.
I'll to my rest.              [_Exeunt all but Juliet and Nurse._
parents were careful not to mention them before her. But one day,
to do so, but she was not to say more to her father than three words,
little King. As soon as the sun appears, she ascends high in the air
_Romeo._ By love, that first did prompt me to inquire;
supreme effort.
a broad goose.                                                    90
Have lost a brace of kinsmen; all are punish'd.
But by this time the hundred years had just passed. The day was come
'Charing Cross' very naturally suggest themselves."
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
that it ran out of the trunk of the tree where it was. The two wanted
written by Shakespeare.
what follows. Steevens cites _The Malcontent_, 1604: "out, you ancient
Then her mother gave her a knife, and said, "Cut the toe off. When you
and Montagues over the dead bodies of their children, the victims of
When at last they awoke, it was already dark night. Grethel began to cry
delayed one day upon their way. I must compliment you exceedingly
Then be not poor, but break it and take this.
I stared. "You don't mean that you know where he is?" said I.
thought. I have not pushed it to the length of getting into a box
human form again. And they embraced and kissed each other, and went
That in distres should be his fort, and onely rampier strong."
wits turned at the singing and shouting and terrible oaths
wedding was fixed, and the girl had already arrived. Because of her
As I walked back I was overtaken by Dr. Mortimer driving in his
level, which is very favourable to the draught of carriages.  It has nine
In explanation of the introduction of this part of the scene, Knight
It was towards the close of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion,
him. When his years were over, the master said, "As you have conducted
Either withdraw unto some private place,
the Dwarf toward him. He held on to all the reeds and rushes, but it
Then the lads said, "Father, we want to mount our Golden Steeds and
"Hush!" he whispered. "Hush!"
of air causing the wires to vibrate.  This was not comprehended by the
"This man malicious which troubled is with wrath,
study table was littered. It was certain that I could not help
get beyond his power. He therefore put pressure upon Mrs. Lyons
I'll to the friar, to know his remedy;
innkeeper was about to give a hearty tug, he cried:
"Whereby I see that Time's the king of men,
_chinks_ in this sense, and the word is found also in Florio, Cotgrave,
34. _Courtship._ Courtesy, courtliness (as in _L. L. L._ v. 2. 363: "Trim
The beautiful maiden fell on her knees before him, and said, "Ah, my
ASH-MAIDEN
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
the old uncle with his bogie hound."
L._ 1574, _T.G. of V._ i. 2. 84, _M. of V._ v. 1. 130, etc.
and not their trimmings. It is the first quality of a criminal
_Mercutio._ The fee-simple! O simple!
within an hour of the event. I checked and corroborated all the
Sherlock Holmes waved our strange visitor into a chair. "You are
At length, in her grief she went out, and the youngest Kid ran with
I have no joy of this contract to-night;
She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
"when the time comes I shall be ready."
lyke_; a translation from the French. He died that same year (1563), and
72. _To season love._ A favourite metaphor with S., though a homely one;
Next morning they returned and helped him out of bed, one put his
He looked at me with a surprised face. "For God's sake put such
supposed. _Living is_ = means of living, possessions; as in _M. of V._
_Capulet._ Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.       140
other royal ornaments.  Under the form of a clergyman, and pretended
to discover who these people are or what their object can be. If
really think that we may eliminate him entirely from our
_charge_, cf. _W.T._ iv. 4. 261: "I have about me many parcels of
speak to it." And scarcely had the carpenter said:
without inscription or any authentic history. It is kept in a kind of
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,                         21
whom I have seen down here, and I have now met all the
position of being able to put into a single connected narrative
news of the most secret things was brought to him through the air.
All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
things between the huge arch of the sky and the desert beneath
148. _Comfortable._ Used in an active sense = ready to comfort or help;
Is he gone, and hath nothing?
Holmes had sprung to his feet, and I saw his dark, athletic
pensioners, who receive an annual allowance of seven pounds twelve
_Tybalt._ You shall find me apt enough to that, sir,
This is our second experimental effort at cataloguing multiple items in
Get thee to bed and rest, for thou hast need.
The maiden, however, resolved to deliver her brothers, even if it
O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
Before he went his mother gave him a beautiful sweet cake and a bottle
"I suppose you may look," said the old woman, and pulled the poisonous
that window again, if you don't mind. It is a singular thing, but
The girl found in the kitchen abundance of everything and cooked a good
Next day, the King went to visit his children, but found no one but the
feather," and when Dunderhead was gone out, she seized the Goose by the
surface was broken by a very unexpected ripple, which has caused
such a stick as the old-fashioned family practitioner used to
Mrs. Lyons. We regard this case as one of murder, and the
are ready with fine words, but when it comes to being in earnest, you
But he answered sorrowfully, "How shall I bear it, if you go away and I
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
not do, it is too much. The Flounder can't make you Pope."
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptiz'd;
Farewell; thou canst not teach me to forget.
_Romeo._ Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.--
may say, not so much as breathed out, but only thought and felt,
trace you can release me."
The numbers in parentheses indicate the lines the characters have in
place, or to discuss the matter quietly where they were, or else to part
hat on your way home."
By that Heaven that bends above us--by that God we both adore--
eds. have "the earth," which is adopted by many editors. Hudson remarks:
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
at the window and cried, "Hans, is Elsie within?"
by the laws of his country. I told Holmes how the matter stood,
one would under the circumstances expect. Today, for example, its
Gloucester. She always comes to us when she is in town."
more or less, before his eyes open upon his Juliet."
My friend bowed his compliments. "You are quick at
saw from afar the three servants running, Lina said to Bird-Found,
The life of Tybalt.
Bastard's braves, and Charles his gleeks?" _To give the gleek_ was "to
shoes."
"_moist_ and _capricious_, full of such humours as characterize lovers,
into the world, but turned back and went home again to his father. But
57. _The label._ The seal appended by a slip to a deed, according to the
with the King's Daughter at one side of him, and the waiting-maid on
Hence banished is banish'd from the world,
the back, as Steevens shows by sundry quotations.
down;" _Cymb._ ii. 2. 13:--
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl.
Think true love acted simple modesty.
shrug of his shoulders and a rueful smile.
variously to Phoebus, Phaethon, Cupid, Night, the sun, the moon,
conspirators. In _Cymb._ v. 5. 430, _label_ is used for the deed itself.
dark our woes!
"_Boil, Little Pot, boil!_"
should be powerless to prevent it. You did not know, Dr.
Can I demand.
shall refuse to receive them in her bosom that have shaken off them the
again.
Holmes.
Because that many times he woorthely did serve
Welcome from Mantua; what says Romeo?
Where thou shalt live till we can find a time                    150
girl she had with her, who was standing down below in the courtyard,
am old, and want to sit in the chimney-corner. Go out, and whichsoever
for I have known some little folks, who have had books and teachers, and
Rolling pasture lands curved upward on either side of us, and old
"And he that stands upon a slippery place
"Good-bye, Hans."
sack."
A sight of her I cannot win,
"sounded," "swouned," and "swooned." In _R. of. L._ 1486 we have
"_Cudgel!
When the Wolf had had his sleep out, he got on his legs, and as the
1.  Countryman on a Stage Coach.
"All right," answered the tailor, "if only it suits you to go into a
_Friar Laurence._                Not in a grave,
"You shall share our knowledge before you leave this room, Sir
rush at once," etc. For _Titan_ as the sun-god, cf. _V. and A._ 177, _T.
she had been torn in pieces by the Lion, and had long ceased to live.
saw three of them coming toward him. The Giants came up, and the first
"_Bricklebrit!_"
From that day forth, the owl has never dared to show herself by
in the wood. She begged quite prettily to be allowed to spend the night
3. _Colliers._ The preceding note explains how _colliers_ came to be a
"_I smell, I smell
their beds. Their bit of bread was given to them, but it was still
whole, we might place _Romeo and Juliet_, on grounds of internal
No nightingale; look, love, what envious streaks
But the Gold-Child dreamed that he rode out to the chase of a splendid
had already got all the peas in their crops, and she did not know which
And is mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
It seemed hopeless to pursue the inquiry any farther, but it was
pleasure.
"You know it well, then?"
rock in front of us and stamped his feet in his impatience.
But round about the castle, there began to grow a hedge of thorns.
foundation is laid on a solid bed of gravel, and the piers are solid
sorrow, and awe of the place where he is" (Coleridge).
When the sun arose, and Hans woke up, he was lying in a deep cavern. He
If thou art Dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
out of the water on to the land, and said to her, "Your wish shall be
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
_Capulet._ Send for the county; go tell him of this.
Little Snow-White is alive and well,
W.P. 8
Evermore showering? In one little body
215. _In that sparing makes huge waste._ Cf. _Sonn._ 1. 12: "And, tender
street-sweeper, the hackney-coachman, the dealer in umbrellas, and
the connection between the man and the beast. Save from what we
It came to pass that Two-Eyes had to go out into the fields and tend
received life again, and by God's grace became fresh, rosy, and full of
"Take the child away into the forest. I will no longer have her in my
"You will, I am sure, excuse my presumption, Dr. Watson," said he
of lawful marriage to cloak the shame of stolen contracts; finally, by
unite.  A great feast was held in this vast apartment, and other rooms of
and rested himself the whole night through upon his soft bed.
By some vile forfeit of untimely death,
comedies, and is = make room. Cf. _Doctor Dodypoll_, 1600: "Room! room!
158. _The watch._ It has been asserted by some of the critics that there
"I don't think I'll get that cry out of my head. What do you
valiantly. And what surprised them most, was that when a dish became
keep themselves alive, they were both obliged to tend sheep.
"Would it not be well in the first place to get rid of this
once contrasting, yet harmonized with young Tybalt's quarrelsome
him with tears to shoot him dead and to chop off his head and feet.
runabouts," and to the fact that Ingleby and Schmidt have since given
But the wicked Witch, because of whom the children had gone out into
Then the huntsman looked about him, and said, "If I only had something
interest, and Sir Henry Baskerville turned a pair of puzzled dark
I asked him casually to what type Frankland's skull belonged, and
flying high and away.
Lamenting her sorrow, and wringing her hands, she called on her beloved
"It is a wonderful place, the moor," said he, looking round over
And see his huge shadow glide by on the sand;
five. Was I with you there for the goose?
"One is the scullery-maid, who sleeps in the other wing. The
The odds are enormously against your finding it. There are ten
"No, they are the homes of our worthy ancestors. Prehistoric man
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
Early in the morning, when she and Conrad drove out their flock beneath
My husband lives that Tybalt would have slain,
marriage and spoke ill of the young Queen. "Who knows," said she, "from
lamentations, and inquired what was the cause. Then Elsie told her
discovered it within three days and nights, should forfeit his life.
had married without his consent and perhaps for one or two other
himself standing upon the summit of the Black Tor. That, then,
_Mercutio._ O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her.
Sherlock Holmes shrugged his shoulders.
is very complex, Sir Henry. When taken in conjunction with your
"I'll behave well. Good-bye, Mother."
log-fire crackled and snapped. Sir Henry and I held out our hands
this den of thieves. Well, well, Mr. Holmes, you'll excuse my
resistance which might be offered."
fluttered, and Snow-White hid herself behind her mother's bed.
_Balthasar._                     Full half an hour.
From this world-wearied flesh.--Eyes, look your last!
6. Words are also _contracted_ for metrical reasons, like plurals and
_II._ ii. 3. 138: "It stands your grace upon to do him right" (that is,
repellent to our taste that we may fail to note it. This is the
"I should say that it was much more likely that it was the son of
was permitted to a witch "to take on her a cattes body nine times."
What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
whole underwent considerable repairs in the reign of George the Third.
When they were both alone, he said, "On the way to the church you did
The forester climbed the tree, and brought the child down. And he
said he, "What a clever Elsie I have. She is so industrious, that she
Henceforward I am ever rul'd by you.
is repeated in a verse it is often both monosyllable and dissyllable; as
The least appearance of opposition struck fire out of the old
however, there were large rooms furnished with an elegance in
_Romeo._ And stay, good nurse; behind the abbey wall
Some time after that Snow-White and Rose-Red went to catch a dish of
from Coombe Tracey, and it was addressed in a woman's hand."
was within a hundred paces of it he was not held fast, but walked on to
He is an architect, an engineer,
I'm sure I never could be made
Henry. I promise you that," said Sherlock Holmes. "We will
early eds. and read "And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall, etc."
indications upon the stick. It gives us the basis for several
"Is it like anyone you know?"
being was visible.
SCENE V.--_Juliet's Chamber._ The scene is variously given by the
"Just as you like."
wide as a church-door, but 'tis enough, 'twill serve;
Without that title.--Romeo, doff thy name,
and that therefore there was no chance for him there. He returned
metaphorical. The only example of the former sense in S. (not really
With matches and old tinder-box,
There was a man who had three sons, the youngest of whom was called
_Mercutio._                      I mean, sir, in delay
Now, when the time had come for him to return home, he had brought
same. The cabman had described a somewhat shorter man, but such
tonight."
_Romeo._ O, teach me how I should forget to think.
spoke.
large sum of money, only spare my life."
2232 lines, including the prologue, while the latter has 3007 lines
will forget your first visit."
Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
"_Pretty little Hen,_
kept sheep for a long time. He often walked round and round the castle,
a fallen tree and devoured his dinner, the tailor was only a looker-on.
See also Milton, _Lycidas_, 67: "Were it not better done, as others
dog he bought in London from Ross and Mangles, the dealers in
like other people, and my sisters and mother hate me for it, and push
"Go back!" she said. "Go straight back to London, instantly."
detach his wife--"
Thy tempest-tossed body.--How now, wife!
which is seven feet high; and another made for Henry the Eighth, when
Ask your sisters to give you the entrails of the slaughtered goat, and
understand that in the event of her obtaining a divorce from her
"How long will it take you to make up your mind?"
provoke us." Cf. i. 1. 75 above.
THE QUEEN BEE                                                    197
a few months among the distractions of town would send him back a
remained awake at night, and slept in the daytime.
horse into the stable, and tie him up myself, for I must know where he
"I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
They walked the whole night and all the next day, from morning till
himself to God, and fell asleep.
lantern_, _crow_, _and spade_
place where the latter had disappeared. Besides, he was a much
paper folded into four. This he opened and spread flat upon the
rich material for kindling the imagination and feeding the poetic fancy
What a wonderful place is this said London!  Here are not only bears from
him. When evening drew near, he stopped and looked around him, and saw
against him. There's the devilish cunning of it! If he were
In the evening, when she had worked till she was weary, she had no bed
compared to the chance of having your throat cut. You see, it
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay,
And there I am.--Where is my Romeo?                            150
Romeo; now art thou what thou art, by art as well
INDEX OF WORDS AND PHRASES EXPLAINED                     293
reiteration in the next speech shows that it is not. Romeo's love for
her, lying untouched.
be as you say, I will allow you to take away with you as much rampion
led into a room adjoining the Princesses' sleeping-chamber. His bed
"_Cudgel!
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
"'But more then all the rest the fathers hart was so
follows.
afford great convenience to the ship-owners, ship-captains, and traders,
that there is a man here who does not fear to invoke it. I have
_Juliet._ Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all
Where shall we dine?--O me! What fray was here?
of what I have said. Would you mind getting that orchid for me
their shoes to pieces in the night?" he answered, "In an underground
was a beautiful woman, but proud and haughty, and she could not bear
distressed therefore when another member of the family came down
Your Golden Girl's came back to you!_"
he did not linger an instant, but galloped off with it.
Then a King's Daughter came into the forest, who had lost herself and
As time went on, the Queen had a pretty little boy. It happened that
which will, unless I am much mistaken, considerably surprise you.
them from the Capulets; hence throughout the play they are known at a
"Are you not asham'd
Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,
she had such a fear of her husband--a fear founded upon brutal
extracts from the latter will carry me on to those scenes which
How oft when men are at the point of death
collective name _humours_."
I saw Holmes put his hand to his forehead like a man distracted.
bad time for the poor child. "Is the stupid goose to sit in the parlor
_Towards_ = ready, at hand (Steevens). So _toward_; as in _M.N.D._ iii.
for her."
commences in May, and generally continues open about six weeks.
The pastrie, mealehouse, and the roome whereas the coales do ly."
found it deserved; imprisonment in those dark ages, being mostly the
was warmly greeted by the manager.
"A man of compliments, whom right and wrong
clothed in white; that in this character they sometimes haunted stables
Some of Rie Cramer's other fairy tale pictures published in England,
"Well, you see the hills beyond? They are really islands cut off
had formerly lived in wealth and happiness, but that now he was so poor
The first said, "Who has been sitting on my chair?"
was hiding."
past that point.
These people had a little window at the back of their house from which
138. _I dreamt_, etc. Steevens considers this a touch or nature: "What
Henry filled his glass again and leaned back in his chair,
drops of blood fall.
"What do you make of it, Dr. Mortimer? You must allow that there
to the masquerade at Capulet's, in order to compare "the admired
anxious to go with her; but she escaped from him so quickly that he
the presence of a masked figure which had arrested the attention of no
85.  The London Docks
Just then he came running in, and the little sister again tied him with
seldom in the fourth; and it is not allowable in two successive accented
bees came flying out, and the Queen-Bee asked him if he had a stiff
43.  The Postman and Letter-Carrier.
was discovered. One fact which has not been explained is
fog out of your throat by giving you a breath of the pure night
don't stick your cap on one ear, you look just like a tom-fool!"
So please you, let me now be left alone,
the loss of the old black boot, and now the return of the new
39. _Thou art thyself_, etc. That is, you would be yourself, or what you
remain behind, how I had followed him, and how I had witnessed
Where the Hunt wording is too stilted, the text of the _Hausmarchen_
32. _They are but beggars_, etc. Cf. _A. and C._ i. 1. 15: "There's
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
get wiser by hurting yourself."
See also v. 3. 240 below.
he gets a stock of hats and slippers, and then begins his walk again.
to them. Cf. _J.C._ iii. 2. 187, _Lear_, i. 1. 263, iii. 4. 73, etc.
Like powder in a skilless soldier's flask,
"Quick, Rose-Red, open the door, it must be a traveler who is seeking
.82  Skating.
the wind; and in the villages he heard more than one crowing. No one
which Mercutio and Tybalt are slain (Daniel).
For _haggard_ = wild hawk, see _Much Ado_, iii. 1 36, _T.N._ iii. 1. 71,
covered with round, flat-crowned caps, tied with bands of coloured
And take the table quite away!_"
he had drunk vinegar, and made a gesture as if he were about to seize
in the plain, a wood, a meadow, or wherever he fancied, he took his
Then seven thousand carts with gold had to be gathered together in the
lie before us, this was at least a comrade for whom one might
glow of a cigar. The moon shone upon him, and I could distinguish
dear woman, what have you to sell?"
opened the one eye again, and shut the other, intending to shut them in
the hound the fog had lifted and we were guided by Mrs. Stapleton
huge hound loose upon it; that would go far to explain
Porters.  All the firemen in London must be watermen or lightermen.
_Mercutio._          Nay, I'll conjure too.--
The girl told her story to the Old Man, and begged for shelter for the
ground, and close by the trunk something was jumping backward and
straight from the Yard to ask you to your face what you had
seemed to play a trick upon you. In truth, it was partly for your
the shipping used to and from those countries, and are considered more
from an inch narrow to an ell broad!
"There were several gentlemen who knew my sad history and united
"Who is there?"
I wake before the time that Romeo
me from one corner to another, throw old clothes at me, and give me
same hall in which for five hundred years my people have lived.
and beat him, and, when he growled, they laughed. But the Bear took it
_Romeo._ It is my soul that calls upon my name;
72. _Wit._ See on iii. 3. 122 above.
to his companions that there must be a house not far off, for he saw a
"How so?" I asked.
_emblaze_ in _2 Hen. VI._ iv. 10. 76.
itself, she carried the Golden Spinning-Wheel to the shore, and spun
wide, for any other names there might be.
cover the facts. I will take an unpleasant remembrance back to
overtake the children.
man stood there he saw something coming across the moor,
was held fast.
carry me into your little room and make your little silken bed ready;
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse,
upon the bleak, cold, shelterless moor. Poor devil! Whatever his
Romeo's a dishclout to him; an eagle, madam,
daughter had been guilty of toward her. The King ordered both to be led
33. _Closet._ Chamber; as in _Ham._ ii. 1. 77, iii. 2. 344, iii. 3. 27,
quite forsaketh it, without sucking any more," etc.
and whose chin had grown a little crooked. "Well," she cried and
II._ v. 1. 69, etc.
were already at rest, the shepherd pulled the flute out of his pocket,
moment that one realised that one was indeed entangled in its
By urging me to fury; O, be gone!
last, they danced out of doors. From that time forth they came no more,
speak, and said, "Brother, are you awake?"
I, that's only used to jog along a few miles in our cart, don't much
A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
Far from friends and houses warm,
now I am so happy! I feel as if my true Bridegroom had come." She told
of the Swedish Pathological Society.  Author of 'Some Freaks of
his guest was lying in a sound sleep, he went to him and pushed and
you."
42. _Free men._ Bitterly sarcastic.
5. 36.
hand, his white, intent face pressed against the pane, exactly as
Or by the break of day disguis'd from hence.
murder which hung over her in connection with the death of her
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
But they had scarcely gone a very little distance, when the whole pond
_T. and C._ v. 1. 68: "a herring without a roe."
196. _Purchase out._ Cf. buy out in _C. of E._ i. 2. 5, _K. John_, iii.
Street once more."
he had made the acquaintance of the ducks.
LIST OF CHARACTERS IN THE PLAY
tree to sleep.
shall. Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I
"Nothing more that you can remember?"
_Romeo._ O single-souled jest, solely singular for
5. 167 below. It is used as an adjective in _2 Hen. IV._ i. 1. 57 and
great labor they succeeded in getting out one stone, then a second, and
cracked one with her teeth, and was going to eat the kernel, when, lo
[Illustration]
This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
however, he had gone as far as this, he folded his wings together, and
[_Exit Friar Laurence._
But she answered, "I like that! One of you might fall on my head!" and
The Curse of the Baskervilles
through I'll never forget it."
does that beautiful forest belong?"
or himself on that account. Nowhere in the play is there the slightest
Ere he that should be husband comes to woo.
county."
by day." The emendation is Capell's. Daniel and Dowden read, "light
post in Devonshire or not."
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead,
preference of the nightingale for the _pomegranate_ is unquestionable.
Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram
necessary to take her there, and could not have returned to
would have liked to be there!)
you between us? I was hurt under your arm." Poor Romeo can only plead,
passed before I have done all that man can do to reach the heart
4. 77: "these bragging Jacks;" _Much Ado_, v. 1. 91: "Boys, apes,
case was very different, as might have been expected from the duke's
to-day since you came to me? Your time is up, we can no longer remain
madness. Then in her frenzy of excitement she seems to see Tybalt's
decanter in honour of this great occasion!"
satisfied with me. Do not send me away."
73. _Feeling._ Heartfelt. Cf. "feeling sorrows" in _W.T._ iv. 2. 8 and
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
Official Registry. I should not be surprised if this were an
and the colour and rude hilarity of an old-time banquet, it might
O, he is the courageous captain of compliments! He
"But why this elaborate deception?"
The servant, however, was terrified and said, "Why should your daughter
"Good-bye, Hans."
animals, a hen, a cock, and a brindled cow.
suggests that there is a play on _brood-goose_, which occurs in
see his hearth and his couch if you have the curiosity to go
Such as would please; 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone.--
streets, and a man rode up on horseback, crying aloud, "The King's
"Why, Dr. Watson, that's not you, is it? You are the last man
A madman's mercy bade thee run away.
26. _Of the very first house._ Of the first rank among duellists.
"Yes, I examined, myself."
you in due course. But, first of all, I must keep you in touch
Then his road lay through a forest, and in the midst of it was a
A visor for a visor! what care I                                  30
for they had nothing to eat but two or three berries, which grew on the
This is in that part of the street between Charing Cross and Parliament
(Marshall).
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
Lady, lady, buy, I pray,
Henry's attire so that, in case he was driven to use the dog, he
reeds and gasping for water. Now, though it is said that fishes are
the twenty-three that the waste of the day before has been burned
should we gain from him?"
The father sent one of the boys in a hurry to the spring, to fetch
But the mother said, "No, Ash-Maiden, you have no clothes and you
great danger of being dragged into the water.
her mother what had happened to her in the wood, with each word she
bathing-house to bathe. When she enters it, run up to her and give her
as yet) a whyle shall lurke" (that is, in manuscript)--
pipe, which was still half full of tobacco. "This shall be my last
soles off your shoes!" Then he took out a sack of pearls which lay in
But over the hills, where the Seven Dwarfs dwell,
you see now whence these words have been taken?"
shock when he found that the wrong man had fallen a victim to his
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
And bound it up again._"
"Our case is not complete. The fellow is wary and cunning to the
"love-lord, ay, husband-friend." _Friend_ was sometimes = lover; as in
One sergeant cried for mercy. He had nine wounds, and was a brave
bed she saw the beautiful country lying before her. Her husband was
she was ashamed of her ugliness, and afraid that if she showed herself
for ever.
that by means of it, he recovered his Jorinda.
tell you something to stop your ever suffering from hunger again; just
throat. The youngest in the clock-case was the only one he did not find.
They laughed, and thought he was joking. He, however, placed his wooden
"And you, a trained man of science, believe it to be
represent the person on whom they intend to exercise their witchcraft."
besides all the iron from Sweden, for bolts and nails; and fir-trees from
now, but was common in Elizabethan English. Cf. _Cymb._ iv. 2. 66: "I
Flower, in the middle of which was a beautiful large pearl; that he
direct, although to us, who had no means in the beginning of
and not trouble myself about anything! The money I have in my pocket is
over hedges and ditches for the whole day without feeling tired. In
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
O son! the night before thy wedding-day
Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
and set his pitcher down, lay down himself, and fell asleep. He had,
said:
dress pleased the Bride so well that she thought it might do for her
Then she fetched in a bucketful of water, and the cock and hen jumped
"That feels very soft!" said Hans.
task was fulfilled. And whether he liked it or not, the King had to
work.  However, we prefer to post short works for you in collections,
room and said:
once more and said, "I cannot open the door even if I wished, for I
To bid me trudge.
I was your mother much upon these years
to a dusky red as he spoke. It was evident that the fiery temper
SCENE III.--5. _Cross._ Perverse. Cf. _Hen. VIII._ iii. 2. 214:--
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good.
At that instant I was aware of a bushy black beard and a pair of
present play) are those of the "Globe" edition (the cheapest and best
found in good writers of recent date. Matzner quotes Sheridan: "I had as
still remained.
beard from the line. But all in vain, beard and line were entangled
against his mouth. Then he looked at it, and saw that it was a ring
and finished without interruption the fifth, the sixth, and the seventh
different sea-ports.  This invention was first practised with success in
"Alas," said the man, half scared, "she wants to live in a great stone
They quivered with delight, put out their heads, and cried to him, "We
"These violent delights have violent ends,
struck with the brilliancy of the scene, that he imagined the streets had
_Paris._ Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
Her nurse is privy; and, if aught in this
would stay to show you over the house, but Barrymore will be a
claws, and tugging and fighting as if each wanted to have it all to
He lent me counsel, and I lent him eyes.                          81
syllable. This change occurs very rarely in the tenth syllable, and
"Perhaps he does. If so, we should be able to shadow him and see
with vexation from the tide of vehicles. "Was ever such bad luck
the horse went full speed into the town, and right up to the courtyard
the whole business. We have gained that much. We know that there
once more."
some short diversions, such as a song, a dance, or the extempore
tied her fast.
can't forget the look in his eyes when he ran at me this morning,
unity and married calm of states;" and _Sonn._ 8. 6:--
It was in the eastern or blue chamber in which stood the Prince
built, into which no ray of sunlight or moonlight should enter. When
it. It was gone, however, and the incident appeared to make the
"The pipe," said he.
it, then yce it with rosewater and sugar, then put it in the oven
"Have you the dates of those letters?"
_Tybalt._ Follow me close, for I will speak to them.--
the luminous mixture with which the creature was daubed. It was
picture at present. I don't wonder that my uncle got a little
[Picture: The Wild Beasts in the Tower]
spindle, busily spinning flax.
or carpet, or had made a shirt, she at once found a buyer who paid
kind of sustenance.  They are said to have a particular property, in
[_Juliet appears above at a window._
Baker Street, and I knew from his drawn brows and keen face that
for laborers met him everywhere, and they had scythes upon their
"_With what should I be satisfied?
be King after his death. But that whosoever came forward and had not
exploit. He is said to have about seven lawsuits upon his hands
with gold chains about his neck. And when he saw the beautiful woman
"You jest," he exclaimed, recoiling a few paces.  "But let us proceed
had been of no avail, she was sad, went out into a meadow, sat down
plump red cheeks, she muttered to herself, "That will be a dainty
They walked the whole day over meadows, fields, and stony places; and
THE RAVEN
_Enter_ FRIAR LAURENCE
Steevens quotes _Albumazar_: "Bring a fresh plantain leaf, I've broke my
sent from Scotland to Billingsgate in summer-time, preserved in ice,
4. 127: "A pestilent gall to me!" _Oth._ ii. 1. 252: "A pestilent
and, I tell you, deserves as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do."
12.  The Tower of London
else but of passing his time with the maiden.
discussing the comparative anatomy of the Bushman and the
not have noticed this one, only it happened to come alone."
"Take back your horse and troops, and give me my three-legged horse
[Illustration: THE PRINCE TOOK HER BY THE HAND AND LED HER TO CHURCH]
have been mocking him, and crying, 'Here comes our hobblety jig back
"I will come, with pleasure," said I. "I do not know how I could
"Excellent!" said Stapleton. "You are perfectly right to be wary
_Lady Capulet._ So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
The metaphor is a military one, referring to a rear-guard or reserve
the wound, and said, "Go to your bed, dear Roe, that you may get well
robber's house. The Donkey, as the biggest, went to the window and
At length he said, "I have eaten and am satisfied. Now I am tired,
_Nurse._                         There's no trust,
ask for me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave              100
Daughter, it is time for you to go out and do your work."
bronze, as if made out of his purchase, which were eagerly bought by
stoniest part of the whole moor. Is that a place where a shepherd
"But why a rendezvous in the garden instead of a visit to the
the King's Child went out into the forest and sat down by the side of
When they had walked a short time, Haensel stood still and peeped
"What are you doing here, Barrymore?"
scene of grief. Peter and the musicians bandy jokes; and though the
_Romeo._ How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
mouthful!"
impaired, and points especially to some affection of the
(_M. of V._ iv. 1. 138, _Cor._ iv. 2. 51, etc.) and rhyming with
_with clubs_
_1 Citizen._                     Up, sir, go with me;
was on the table, he said, "Now, push your little golden plate nearer
up. The little birds were, however, soon left behind. They could go no
in the poem; not a suggestion that the love of Romeo and Juliet is not
SCENE II. _Hall in Capulet's House_
She did this, but it was easy to see that she did not do it willingly.
Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
Cophetua and the Beggar-Maid_ (see Percy's _Reliques_), in which we
Along the streets merrily going;
Prince and was by day a Lion, and all his people were Lions with him.
"That is a delightful way of keeping house!" thought Two-Eyes, and was
by name, but in vain. She hurried across to the other side of the
comes from the South." The tale originated in Italy; "it breathes the
in a barrel which is studded inside with pointed nails, and two white
First Report of Dr. Watson
"even in pure and vestal modesty
get his hound, to treat it with his infernal paint, and to bring
The shoemaker took a very hearty drink, and the storm on his face began
her the cottage of the Old Woman. Next morning, she again set out and
missing boot."
21. _Muffle._ Cover, hide. Cf. i. 1. 168 above; and see _J.C._ iii. 2.
saw it, there arose laughter and derision, and she was so ashamed that
now are, even if you were not a Montague; just "as a rose is a rose--has
"My good fellow; this is a very serious business, and you may
and haughtiness which had humbled her, and brought her to so great
SCENE I.--2. _The day is hot._ "It is observed that in Italy almost all
roof is of curious workmanship in oak, and reminds the beholders of a
that of an Esquimau?"
Blindly we ran through the gloom, blundering against boulders,
Meanwhile his Bride awaited him in vain, and thought, "That which I so
Well, here are the Lord Mayor's coach and six horses, standing opposite
lead her in a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a
had been occupied for some time, and I saw, as my eyes became
to add to them. Then all trouble was at an end, and they lived together
round, found a woman near me upon the path. She had come from the
4. 32, _M. of V._ ii. 2. 27, 139, etc.
[Illustration]
of without he say 'Sir-reverence.'" Taylor the Water-Poet says in one of
Thy kinsmen and thy trusty frendes shall wayle the sodain chaunce;
commentators quote illustrations of this from other authors, but do not
grasp the fruit no better than One-Eye and Three-Eyes, for she always
SCENE. I.--1. _The flattering truth._ This is apparently = that which
antecedent to that of Elizabeth, I find this custom preserved. Of the
kept St. Oliver's private school. Read them and see if you can
_Friar John._ Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
this seven years and never a word of complaint. I came here
this hall the Court of Aldermen and Common Council have a very handsome
Earl of Huntington_, 1601:--
of the spectators.  The solemnity of the place, and the hope that so much
Gracechurch Street.
_Montague_: i. 1(28); iii. 1(3); v. 3(10). Whole no. 41.
"See," said he. "No one could find his way into the Grimpen Mire
breast-pocket. "This family paper was committed to my care by Sir
221. _Patience._ A trisyllable. See on v. 1. 27 above. In the next line
are exactly as written and show my feelings and suspicions of the
The boy placed himself by the margin of the well, and often saw a
"If matters came to a crisis I should endeavour to be present in
promised to do as he desired.
A screech-owl with glowing eyes flew three times round about her, and
And her immortal part with angels lives.
forces outside the ordinary laws of Nature, there is an end of
_Capulet._                       Peace, you mumbling fool!
894: "These violent vanities can never last." He might have added _Ham._
kill our neighbours and destroy their property; when it might be employed
"He, too, might as well have saved his life."
"_Flounder, Flounder in the sea,
139. _Afeard_. Used by S. interchangeably with _afraid_ (v. 3. 10
Then she seized Haensel with her shrivelled hand, carried him into a
They did not awake until it was dark night, and Haensel comforted his
The girl was, however, sitting at her work singing:
had dispatched the trap upon its return journey. A small boy was
Russel in his account of Aleppo. A friend ... informs us that throughout
_Balthasar._ Then she is well, and nothing can be ill;
"Well, sir, I took no particular notice of his letters. I should
[Picture: The Waterman, the Ticket Porter, and Fellowship Porter]
iv. 7. 123, _Much Ado_, iii. 1. 78, etc.
after your further inspection of the many, my daughter (who is one of
He gave it a touch with a switch over its back, whereupon it kicked up
left they knew that the seven years were coming to an end. They thought
3. _The date is out_, etc. That is, such tediousness is now out of
the man, one more wicked or, it may be, more drunken than
Halfway down this walk there is a gate which leads out on
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
"_With what should I be satisfied?
And feather, that made him quite smart.
victory over your enemies."
singular place, save that he must be of Spartan habits and cared
Looking-Glass:
you saved from starving. When we had grown big, and heard that you were
The other day--Thursday, to be more exact--Dr. Mortimer lunched
a point whence I could look straight through the uncurtained
pretty clear signs that this will not be wanting if the lady is
iv. 1. 55:--
"You are a fine fellow, and as clever as your brother," said his
And make him chase it here and there,
_Re-enter_ BENVOLIO
stone, a score of them at least.
Barrymores had taken us into their confidence. Their secret had
LITTLE RED-CAP
2. _Gapes._ Rushton quotes Swinburn, _Briefe Treatise of Testaments and
_Tybalt_: i. 1(5), 5(17); iii. 1(14). Whole no. 36.
archly, and knows that he is to have the kiss he sues for. He asks,
cried. "They'll find they've started in to monkey with the wrong
under atrocious circumstances, and that the man who had owned
"Is it hard to know?"
hung, for example in blue--and vividly blue were its windows.  The
as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to obtain an
Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!"
to sleep. And the wind fell; and on the trees before the castle not a
Fetch me my rapier, boy.--What dares the slave
"To that extent."
66. _Coil._ Ado, "fuss." See _Much Ado_, iii. 3. 100, _M.N.D._ iii. 2.
windows" (Steevens). Cf. Parker, _Glossary of Architecture_: "In Gothic
episode because it assumes some importance in view of the tragedy
_Romeo._ Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.
distance. Cf. Gascoigne, _Devise of a Masque, written for Viscount
To Juliet's grave, for there must I use thee.          [_Exeunt._
a letter would be careless. If he were in a hurry it opens up the
Italian vintages myself, and bought largely whenever I could.
second wire to the postmaster, Grimpen: 'Telegram to Mr.
What if this mixture do not work at all?
character, not for Shakespeare.
aim at him.
him that he knew of no way to overcome this stratagem, and that if the
AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY
skilled labor, he was the longest in learning. His brothers, however,
business.
last occupant of the Hall, fulfilling so exactly the conditions
the highroad along which I travelled.
falls upon the sable carpet, there comes from the near clock of ebony a
Boudjia" (Knight).
53. _God save the mark!_ An exclamation of uncertain origin, commonly =
"Indeed. That is very interesting. Well, good-bye," he added as
desire to deceive me you must change your tobacconist; for when I
cage. The boy ran thither and said, "Give me my ball."
That stands upon the green,
"I didn't think you would have taken advantage of it, Sir
The Hound agreed, and on they went.
shut, and she thought she would take out the drumstick. But when
that he forgot all danger, went before the King, and declared himself a
Which craves as desperate an execution
Where the tempest bellow'd keen,
"On the night of Sir Charles's death Barrymore the butler, who
A gentleman of noble parentage,
only known to him. However, both of them were under his
shin." _A broken shin_, like a _broken head_ (_M.W._ i. 125, _T.N._ v.
the undulating downs, long green rollers, with crests of jagged
"Come home, then," said the tailor, and led her into the stable, and
treated you badly, still it has not cost you your life. Of money and
man's daughter, milk for her to wash in and wine for her to drink. But
Bird-Found said, "Neither now, nor ever."
adds _The Two Merry Milkmaids_, 1620: "Why then 'tis done, and dun's the
white--and even thence to the violet, ere a decided movement had been
up (Steevens).
She was quite delighted, and said, "Husband, how has all this come to
I had no opportunity to tell the baronet what I had learned about
heavy.
both. If the "blue windows" _were_ blue eyes, Malone would make out his
prologue-speakers on the stage. Prologues and epilogues were often
on a cloth, and say:
with; as in _K. John_, ii. 1. 563:--
with fresh courage; but he had no need to do so, for, when he got up,
only want to get a glimpse of his face to see that. Look at Mr.
of that. We'll sit up in my room tonight and wait until he
daughter shall wash herself in water and drink water."
stayed quietly lying where she was, and fell asleep again. But when she
footmark is material."
life, and I may do you good in some other way."
The youth, full of joy, set out homeward, and took the Golden Apple
swallowed the pain, and went out to the King's Son. He took her on his
his displeasure. The baronet stood for a minute looking after
55. _Depart._ Perhaps = part. Cf. 3 _Hen. VI._ ii. 6. 43: "A deadly
(1st, 3d, etc.) being unaccented. Theoretically, it is made up of five
26. _Beshrew._ See on ii. 5. 52 above.
"Never mind, will do better next time."
Blackfriars' Bridge is a very pleasant place for a walk, especially on a
playing with Dr. Mortimer's spaniel. In a very few hours the
Cf. _Lear_, iv. 6. 195: "The natural fool of fortune." See also _Ham._
And yet Mercutio is a fellow of excellent fancy--poetical fancy--as the
The stork came to him and greeted him. "I see," he began, "that you
face. "Verily, the bundle weighs as heavily as if it were full of
completely deceived us."
After this she came to the three piercing swords, and then she seated
Thereupon she thrust a little book into his hand, which was cut out of
white with a red cheek, so that every one who saw it longed for it.
come in."
for drinking.
unusual appearance, and was made of common wood. But it had one good
who came toward him, but she was a Witch.
order with which each school finds its own situation, and the union of so
Grethel presents Hans with a needle.
standing in the stables, and no human being was to be seen. They went
straight into it through the open windows, crept round about into every
_Prince._ Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
dogged us so long. He might slip away from us in the crowd of
he!--over our wine--he! he! he!"
What said my man when my betossed soul
_Juliet._                        Do not swear at all;
170. _There rest._ From 1st quarto; the other early eds. have "rust,"
element in Shakespeare's conception of the character. With the parents
they passed by.
"Did Barrymore profit at all by Sir Charles's will?" asked
The King said to his daughter, "I will proclaim a great feast that
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses.
student. And he left five years ago--the date is on the stick. So
light.
And 'tis this makes my heart feel so cheerful and light.
thoughts when he wrote in _Il Pens._, 'Till civil-suited morn appear,'
please, and one side or end of it will always rise as high as the other.
fury. What was I doing with the lady? How dared I offer her
window with a sharp hiss of his breath and stood, livid and
"I observed it as you entered the room," said Holmes.
behind a pair of gold-rimmed glasses. He was clad in a
them. There was no help for it, they all had to weep for joy. The young
of fate, Watson, when you hear a step upon the stair which is
sense out of the chap who cleans them. The worst of it is that I
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.--
"Good heavens, Holmes! Are you sure of what you say? How could he
his travels, his master presented him with a little table which had no
of plate;" and his _May-Day_, 1611: "Court-cupboards planted with
And when she asked of the Looking-Glass at home:
"Alas, Wife," said the man, "what will you not wish for? You cannot be
"How do you know of him then?"
which we learn that Brooke had written other poems, which with this he
"Then promise me, if you should become Queen, your first child."
Thereupon the little Dwarf carried the Ravens' dinner in, on seven
people to seek for him in the fields, but they did not find him. Then
and measure out my grave."
in a street brawl between the partisans of the rival houses. The
fishes whose lives he had saved. The one in the middle held a mussel in
by this benevolent institution; and there is a sermon preached once a
damage as formerly, when houses were built of wood, or without
in the yew alley. I feared that some disaster might occur, for I
stole after him, and as the guest bolted the stable-door, he peeped
Blue Light went on burning. But of what use was that to him? He
whole number), in the _M.N.D._ about 900, and in _Rich. II._ about 500,
suggests that he look more carefully at the "fresh female buds" of
"What did you take her?"
beggary in the love that can be reckon'd." _Worth_ = wealth.
Iron John came, and already knew what had happened. "You have let a
[Illustration: THE PRINCESS WENT OUT AND GATHERED STAR-FLOWERS]
about and kiss each other! And as they had no longer any need to fear
With them eke can I helpe my selfe at times of my behoue," etc.
condition--namely, if he brought him the Golden Horse which ran faster
embroidered with silk and silver. She put on the dress with all speed,
And pretty brindled Cow,
That one word, as if its soul in that one word he did outpour
Romeo and Juliet, and to make them the children of the rival Veronese
the work of a protecting friend as easily as of an enemy. Where
fails to make himself felt as such to him who has done the wrong.
To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
But when the old woman stole away the newly-born child for the third
October, 1997  [Etext #1065]*
moment more accurately than my memory, clear as it is upon these
are situated by the water-side.  At Chelsea, the pensioners have gardens
butterfly-net. He was very much closer to the pair than I was,
You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.--
I can get in myself!" and she crept up and thrust her head in. Then she
sure to let no one come in."
and Taylor, _Pennilesse Pilgrim_: "our first and second course being
called to him. He could not resist, but went inside, and lived only for
my misery, and yet it is in your power to free me," and again he asked
should stop these disgraceful exhibitions. The County
The Prince said, "Pour out the draught by the bedside."
_Published by Harvey & Darton_
little green patches everywhere into which one may sink and with
little old house, and much grass had grown all about it, and a small
"We will consider about that," said the woman, "and sleep upon it;"
"our suffering country
fastened until their black friend had arrived.
They all three traveled away together, and came to an ant-hill. The two
face of the victim, were the pest ban which shut him out from the aid
roast them, but Simpleton would not permit it, and said, "Leave the
happiness.
"Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had as much food as she
143. _Wrought._ "Not = induced, prevailed upon, but brought about,
muttered to herself, caught the Nightingale, and took it away in her
because I asked him."
use of it. Only seek out a country where such things are still unknown,
But it pained the King, and still more his daughter, that she should
defect--was that he was exceedingly loath to communicate his full
saying so, Two-Eyes rolled a couple of golden apples from under the
creeper to break its harsh outline. Suddenly we looked down into
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
The Little Man said, "That is an easy thing for me to do, but a very
James's, have cost so considerable a sum of money, that the destruction
The fierce flash of her eyes said more than any words.
Away from light steals home my heavy son,
his own life, and has brought him back, quite senseless, to the boat.
buffoons, there were improvisatori, there were ballet-dancers, there
Said Lina, "Then do you become a church, and I'll be the chandelier in
of their circumscribing walls of solid granite.
wedding was being celebrated, he was astonished, and said, "Where is
There is a suit of armour belonging to John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster,
of an hour's walk, but the Old Woman would not let him off, packed the
So the girl went back to the well, and did not know what to do. Then in
To-morrow will I send.
"Poor Bear," said the mother, "lie down by the fire. Only take care
illumined the room.  And thus were produced a multitude of gaudy and
dew. To speak of the earth as _drizzling_ dew is nonsense; we might as
"You speak as if a man
_Friar Laurence._                Romeo!--            [_Advances._
woman with a stern set expression of mouth. But her telltale eyes
suffocate them.
And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
So novell love out of the minde the auncient loue doth rive."
in every variety of dress, from the Elizabethan knight to the
Dwarfs. In the winter, when the earth is frozen hard, they are obliged
Then the bird threw a gold and silver dress down to her, and slippers
"I'll take great care," said Little Red-Cap to her Mother, and gave her
Mayor.  The knight-marshal, with his officers, having reached this
contributes to the ease and comfort of many of his employers; yet, one
"Baskerville Hall," said he.
And I'll believe thee.
To murther, murther our solemnity?--
26. _Wormwood._ Halliwell-Phillipps cites Cawdray, _Treasurie or
But whose velvet violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o'er
"Say, rather, into the region where we balance probabilities and
white lace collar, and the straight, severe face which was framed
who had lost his wits would have run _from_ the house instead of
Baker Street and afterwards to the station and to the
and there are one or two other neighbours. These are the folk who
he says _grey_ he means grey. See on ii. 3. 1 above. The _New Eng.
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
"_Now we are boys so fine to see,
_body_ of the vehicle, and is therefore one of the "parts."
that are found in the sea, and worth more than your whole kingdom, and
work at, that she may not stand idle."
happiness, must add greatly to the effect.
oxen into money, and get yourself some clothes, and whatsoever else
having given too much unsought; the perplexity of the whole, all summed
"'_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, I pray,
144: "Two may keep counsel when the third's away."
"It is Selden, the Notting Hill murderer."
wedding knives," etc. Dyce remarks that the omission of the word _knife_
"The whole course of events," said Holmes, "from the point of
I sent the king?"
But Dunderhead begged so long that at last he said, "Go then. You will
In not more than the time necessary for the comb to sink to the bottom,
old family connection."
Then she went thither, and found everything as the Night Wind had said.
support it. That opening of the door which I had heard after I
spring out of her mouth."
letter_, from its resemblance in sound to the snarling of a dog."
Sir Henry Baskerville and Dr. Mortimer were ready upon the
in _A. and C._ iii. 4. 6.
forest?"
_Enter_ PETER
Is in a large, open, square place, called West Smithfield; where is held,
influence, and he had nothing to fear from them. The first half
_Peter._ O, I cry you mercy, you are the singer; I
herself be laced with the new laces. But the old woman laced so quickly
"There go two of my threads, Watson. There is nothing more
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from this city,
came out of it, who led a horse that snorted, and could hardly be
then Prince Regent, and the Duke of Wellington, with grand military
"Well, I cannot blame you for standing by your own wife. Forget
attention and with an occasional exclamation of surprise.
Henry--all mine. He has done nothing except for my sake and
bidden to the feast. When she had arrayed herself in beautiful clothes,
Holmes laid his hand upon my arm. "If my friend would undertake
"He did. He said that the death was a very mysterious one, and
"You senseless goose!" snarled the Dwarf. "Why should you fetch
painted her face, and dressed herself like an old pedler-woman, and no
cf. v. 3. 181 below: "without circumstance" (= without further
_Mercutio._ God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
alike, and did not know what to do. He did not wish to sell the house,
"How do you know that?"
what I had heard of his treatment of his daughter, but I was
thought of that other one--the face in the cab, the figure against
old manservant, who seemed in keeping with the house. Inside,
the direct accessory to murder. She was ready to warn Sir Henry
their bemused wits awoke to the nature of the deed which
Iron Stove in the wild forest. I sought you, and walked over a Glass
into their father's arms. The man had not known one happy hour since he
When the mother had emptied the two dishes of lentils amongst the
The man went back to fish, and after a while he chanced to draw out the
_Benvolio._         Go, then; for 'tis in vain
O, by this count I shall be much in years
The father, however, could not rejoice, but began to weep, and said,
566, etc.]
tugging us down into those obscene depths, so grim and purposeful
Only one who knew of what a true woman is capable, in frankness, in
old fat one said:
191. _A choking gall_, etc. That is, "love kills and keeps alive, is a
71. _Rosaline._ This shows that Rosaline is a Capulet.
detective with a shiver, glancing round him at the gloomy slopes
such as might blast the man who said them.  At last in the
pawing furiously, and then fell limp upon its side. I stooped,
Blow Conrad's little hat away,
apothecaries' shops.
_Nurse._                         Look, look! O heavy day!
64. _Rest you merry!_ For the full form, _God rest you merry_! (= God
seek another country, but nowhere did they find a shelter, or a human
every morning, a gold piece lies under his pillow." She told her what
rolling unbroken to the farthest horizon I could not but marvel
long sought thee!"
a bed, and at last he was forced to creep into the goose-house, and lie
intolerant eye.
This is as 't should be.--Let me see the county;
should not be within it I must remain there, however long the
would, however, advise every country customer who visits that place, to
Gutenberg or various other etext collections.  We want to make our
found his hunting-pouch lying on the shore, she could no longer have
everywhere. You have a good voice, and if we make music together, it
the household; and observe the mode of connection by accidents of time
"That is Merripit House and the end of our journey. I must
bells.  My heart grew sick on account of the dampness of the catacombs.
in death the Prince Prospero.  Then, summoning the wild courage of
"Yes, it is a statement of a certain legend which runs in the
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels.
Shall we travel together?"
their shoes were worn out with dancing, and no one could find out how
"Will you prepare you for this masque to-night?
own prisoner. Such are the adventures of last night, and you must
54. _This knife._ It was the custom of the time in Italy as in Spain for
known to be the webs of certain species of spiders. Cf. _Lear_, iv. 6.
the next heir, is an elderly gentleman of a very amiable
so heard nothing but craniology for the rest of our drive. I have
that is, what fowl is under the crust of the pie. _Good Angelica_
128. _Conduit._ Probably alluding to the human figures that spouted
sir, a word: and as I told you, my young lady bade
3(3), 4(3), 5(13); v. 3(5). Whole no. 115.
5th quartos). Herford reads "pardon-me's."
voluptuous in the rose, with whatever is sweet in the freshness of
"But, Grandmother, what large hands you have!"
appears very grand to the living, it makes no difference to 'the poor
Which then most sought where most might not be found,
have grown kinder, and do not leave poor animals to suffer hunger."
confine ourselves for the present with your permission to this
For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.              [_Exit._
What I have spoke; but farewell compliment!
"He cannot leave town at present. He has other cases which engage
[Illustration]
Then she was much troubled, and went to her father and mother, and
THE THREE LUCK-CHILDREN                                          272
sheep-dog of the moor? Or a spectral hound, black, silent, and
ROMEO.--Some critics have expressed surprise that Shakespeare should
preserve this carefully. It will be of service to you on your way."
a needle.
There art thou happy. Tybalt would kill thee,
From heaven down did hie,
sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to his enemy.
evidently important, and it is unlikely that the composer of such
the ground exhausted.
of the prologue. But when the metre requires that the _-ed_ be made a
The thousand injuries of Fortunato I had borne as I best could, but
"And for a further proofe, he shewed in hys hat
"_Little Table!
ribbons.  The whole appearance forms an elegant livery, well adapted to
You are welcome, gentlemen!--Come, musicians, play.--
Friar comes. It must have been near midnight (see v. 2. 23) when Friar
But little Snow-White was growing up, and grew more and more beautiful.
maiden, with the hounds upon her track.  'But I have seen
married her, and the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing.
And when they were inside, he ordered the doors to be shut and bolted.
considerable interest in our fair neighbour. It is not to be
observed and reported. Always there was this feeling of an unseen
"Alas," thought she, "if any of the people from my father's kingdom
The young journeyman thought, "With this you have enough for your whole
baronet. He told us of similar cases, where families had suffered
Dwarf, who had stolen my treasures. I have had to run about the forest
wall she came down from under the eaves, and so homeward
came back he thought, "They must be waiting for me below. I, too, must
reference perfectly clear.
Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
Or like harmonious thunderings, the seats of heav'n among.
"_Shiver and quiver, Little Tree,
well! Emperor is too shameless! The Flounder will at last be tired out."
That's right, sweep away there, my good little man,
Beloved, forgive me for the evil I have done you. My mother drove
boy down from his shoulder, and said to him, "You will never see your
"The hound!" cried Holmes. "Come, Watson, come! Great heavens, if
her, they went into the Witch's house, and in every corner there stood
Her mother is the lady of the house,
suddenly his bear-skin fell off, and he stood there a handsome man,
"Among these harsh and inferior spirits is Juliet placed; her haughty
be the very one to meet you, it might as easily be a cat, or dog?"
Witches, the other shall not escape me!"
"Alas, no," answered the tailor, "something quite different weighs me
be baptized at once.
come into the city, or on a proclamation of peace, this gate is shut and
dripping beard was pointing up to the cold, clear moon. There
_Friar Laurence._ Arise; one knocks. Good Romeo, hide thyself.
plough-wheel, and three nuts.
received_ in _R. of L._ 703 and _Cor._ i. 1. 116.
At last the two brothers arrived at a castle where stone horses were
of which a whole regiment of soldiers is lying, but do not trouble
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
future is a hard question to answer. Mrs. Stapleton has heard her
_The Gray Mask_
which I by no means despise--but these are nothing in comparison with
he will stand to in a month.                                     140
resemble the countenance of a stiffened corpse that the closest
"Ah, that settles it. Mrs. Oldmore, too; I seem to remember the
25. _Spite._ Vexation. Cf. i. 5. 64 above.
Shall I not then be stifled in the vault,
Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain;
Is set a-fire by thine own ignorance,
sought out. They resembled each other exactly, and were only to be
Not a leaf more I'll touch,
upon the zeal and the intelligence which you have shown over an
Fixing the Nets
I am suffering from hunger and thirst, do give me an alms."
"Mortimer said that the man had walked on tiptoe down that
Then the husband bought a lot of new crockery. With this she sat down
your rooms."
105. _Let lips do_, etc. Juliet has said that palm to palm is holy
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love,
finished, and all flew out again.
When you have done that, place the spinning-wheel near the water, and
peasant nudged his wife, and said, "Grethe, that was the first,"
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
The horrible conceit of death and night,
rememberable variation on the same remembered air than in the
[Picture: The Tower of London]
the mountain and half set.
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
damnation!"
_Tybalt._ I am for you.                               [_Drawing._
and he cried out in anger, "I wish the boys were all turned into
granted by Henry the Second, to a neighbouring priory, as a mart for
say that to him."
_Gregory._ Ay, while you live, draw your neck out
which marred its perfect beauty. But these, of course, are
had seen it in the night. The Old Woman received her kindly, and
be too late to do any thing for _her_, but cry very bitterly over her
"No, Wife," said the man, "I do not like to say that to him; that would
Sir Henry had numerous papers to examine after breakfast, so that
Then the King's Daughter Came to a Little House and Peeped
It must be understood that neither by word nor deed had I given
one after the other on their backs, and never stopped until it had
_Nurse._ O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
said, "I will go to the kitchen and inquire about it."
immaculate in the evening with the gloss still on his hat and his
dissolution.  The scarlet stains upon the body and especially upon the
thought into a picture, and clothes her emotions in visible images,
36. _Bons._ The early eds. have "bones," which is unintelligible. The
and discreet. I am justly reproved for what I feel was an
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
95 above.
willing, for I have seldom seen a man more infatuated with a
"tags"; but in the latest plays they are not so frequent. The _Temp_.,
dripping jaws upon them, the three shrieked with fear and
well if you could make it convenient not to return before
The relations, however, mocked him, and were forced to go home without
becomes of importance. Let me hear you reconstruct the man by an
on the new form that they cannot sit at ease on the
which was the case.
Prospero as he uttered these words.  They rang throughout the seven
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night's Plutonian shore!"
IV._ i. 2. 14: "Indeed, you come near me now, Hal." Schmidt is clearly
anger was not to be appeased. How she cried when she had to leave us!
At this, the servants were terribly anxious. They winked at the doctor
Upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit,
curious misprint "fennell."
basket. Far and wide there was nothing but snow, and not a green blade
appointed day, and we started as arranged for Devonshire. Mr.
are conscious everywhere of the homes and the work of the
shed, the walls of which are hung with faded wreaths and other mementoes
interview with the baronet in his study after breakfast, and I
palmers' kiss. She afterwards says that palmers have lips that they must
When the day came for the Bride and the Bridegroom to go to church,
"And then you will say nothing to him at all until I have made up
What torch is yond that vainly lends his light
renders "bak'd meats" by _pastisserie_. Cf. _The White Devil:_--
At midday he reached his father, who rejoiced to see him again, and
"Yes, sir, that was the gentleman's name."
return to London."
[Picture: The Fire-engine]
prompt recognition. The scent suggested the presence of a lady,
made one cut, than a little Kid thrust its head out, and when she had
"_Bricklebrit!_"
Capulet objects, but finally yields to her husband's persistency; and so
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault,
get of her bright young sportiveness. With the kiss that ends the pretty
of what you have withheld in connection with that matter."
from whom?"
attendants came in, and asked what orders she would like to give?
haggish age steal on;" _Cor._ ii. 1. 18: "In what enormity is Marcius
"Well, sir, I thought no good could come of it. But now you have
called Iron John.
_Mercutio._ Well said; follow me this jest now till
Sister, let me in!' that I may know you. And if you do not say that, I
_Peter._ O, musicians, because my heart itself plays             100
her little Roe was hurt. She washed the blood off him, laid herbs on
unimaginative as I am myself. Yet he took this document very
_Juliet_: i. 3(8), 5(19); ii. 2(114), 5(43), 6(7); iii. 2(116), 5(105);
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
Congratulate me, my dear Holmes, and tell me that I have not
offered to go into the dangerous forest. The King, however, would not
catacombs.  I paused again, and this time I made bold to seize
80. _I will bite thee by the ear._ A playful expression of endearment,
on her back. Any one would have thought that the heavy load would have
Then Two-Eyes said a little prayer she knew, "Lord God, be with us
(My honor saved) prest tobay [to obey] your will while life endures.
And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
Romeo and his companions, in a _mask_, and sends a messenger before to
cannot get up."
out to the mill-pond, sat down and combed her long black hair with the
"Such is the tale, my sons, of the coming of the hound
"'_Bricklebrit!_'
So they rode forth and came to an inn, in which were many people. They
An Apothecary sate vnbusied at his doore,
And when the first servant came with a dish of delicate fare, the
Which on more view of many, mine being one
little patience it will be found."
this was probably the case with some of the prologues and epilogues in
back and call him. Tell him we want to have a small cottage. He will
it.
carried, underground, to all the houses they wish to supply; the water in
Little Red-Cap raised her eyes, and when she saw the sunbeams
See also Milton, _L'All._ 137: "Married to immortal verse."
short valley between rugged tors which led to an open, grassy
her sleep; she shall do servant's work for me."
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part,
"Quite in the back row, eh? But her brother was well up to the
is meant. Cf. _T.N._ ii. 4. 116: "with a green and yellow melancholy."
many statements, yet as I come in a direct line from Hugo
_Gregory._ That shows thee a weak slave; for the
The stones for paving London are mostly brought from the quarries of
guard you from all light."
"Exactly. I fancy the yew alley, though not marked under that
28. _Here comes two_, etc. Halliwell-Phillipps remarks that the
to have one spot where they can meet to transact their business.  Sir
_Sampson._ I strike quickly, being moved.
6. _'Tis an ill cook_, etc. Cf. Puttenham, _Arte of English Poesie_,
her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could see
There was once upon a time, a King who had twelve daughters, each one
_Romeo._ Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
hill. The brushwood was lighted, and when the flames were burning very
Neither does the poet, as some believe, intend to read a lesson against
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
_Romeo._ Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
tragedy.... In brief, _Romeo and Juliet_ owes to Shakespeare only its
covered with other buildings centuries ago.
"You have confessed that you asked Sir Charles to be at the gate
into a conflict with Tybalt until driven to incontrollable grief and
unsafe abode for a Baskerville--that is your opinion?"
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
leaded bourgeois type of a _Times_ article and the slovenly print
tailor; "the honey will refresh me."
will give them to eat and to drink, and will fill their pockets with
had been so unhappy when his master was changed into a Frog, that he
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;--
"_Nibble, nibble, gnaw!
companion, "that Dr. Mortimer is a successful, elderly medical
"Well, my dear son, what have you learnt?" said he to him.
169: "both our mothers" = the mother of both of us. See also _Ham._ iii.
_Paradise of Daintie Devises_. See also Percy's _Reliques_.
"No, I must go. I shall probably find some work awaiting me. I
Close by the King's castle lay a great dark forest, and under an old
passages, _atom_ not at all.
ashes, in her gray gown.
160. _Tassel-gentle._ The _tassel-gentle_ or _tercel-gentle_ is the male
living, and still had her pretty red cheeks. They said, "We could not
"_Oh, Queen, thou art fairest of all I see,
your children, they may play with them."
"Oh, come with me," said the man. "If we four are together, we shall
descent, and stood together on the damp ground of the catacombs of the
_Romeo._ Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
King could do no otherwise than deliver her over to justice; and she
She is the hopeful lady of my earth.
grow out of the water on which the Griffin may rest; for if he cannot
shelter."
possibility that he may force me to live with him. At the time
"And then the whining schoolboy, with his satchel
"Yes, sir."
so slowely that he had thought the stately steedes had bin tired that
And never from this palace of dim night
And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
"I shall try my luck some day."
with his Wishing-Table. It came to pass that on his way home, he
"Then you may expect us. Shall I have a cab called?"
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
brothers said, "Let us rest a little by the well, and eat and drink."
stood behind the door, and listened for what he was going to say.
wicked girls, they are tender morsels for you, fat as young quails. For
They took off their beautiful dresses, laid them away, put the worn-out
We were only doing our duty in taking this chance of putting him
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
_Mercutio._ 'Tis no less, I tell you, for the hand of
COMMENTS ON SOME OF THE CHARACTERS
When the Wild Man had reached once more the dark forest, he took the
respect I did not differ from him materially: I was skillful in the
the anguish of her heart, she jumped into the well to get the shuttle.
stole down into the stable, led away the master of the mint, and tied
"There's no doubt about the authenticity, for the name and the
against me."
When it was night, and the youth was already asleep, she was led into
38. _Evening mass._ Ritson and others say that Juliet means _vespers_,
I should miss the chance which fortune had thrown in my way.
"True," I replied; "the Amontillado."
When it was ready and the soldier had taken possession of it, he
entertained ten thousand guests, with his usual hospitality.
_Oth._ iii. 4. 156: "no jealous toy," etc. _Inconstant toy_ and
I could not doubt that this was the Miss Stapleton of whom I had
both lines.
come upstairs, Dr. Watson, and inspect my collection of
she sat down again and asked me the object of my visit.
thread it as well as ever he had done, his heart danced with delight.
himself as near to his ancestral home as he could, and his second
Weariness, pain, and hunger made the wretched man fall asleep, and he
_Tamburlaine_: "our souls aspire celestial thrones," etc.
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly."
That I have worn a visor and could tell
28. _A hall, a hall!_ This exclamation occurs frequently in the old
And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--
"There is an exit through a summer-house at the far end."
But the wicked woman, when she had reached home, went in front of the
promised reward.
them, on which the tree cracked with a loud report.
The Fox did not remain behind, and he said to the youth, "Now I will
Sir Henry was more pleased than surprised to see Sherlock Holmes,
beautiful dark, eager eyes. With her perfect figure and elegant
in the soup to-morrow. This evening I am to have my head cut off. Now I
Soon after that she had a little daughter, who was as white as snow,
two-edged sword placed on the summit of a staff for the defence of
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
came in. She wished to avenge herself for not having been invited, and
a vicious snap in the air, it rolled upon its back, four feet
"_I must go my maid to see,
The good little duck did so, and when they were once safely across and
Then said he, "If you will not tell me anything, tell your sorrows to
the palace, in the days of King Richard the Second, who is said to have
many other shops are much hurt by the dust; so that, at an early hour in
_Benvolio._ Have you importun'd him by any means?
The second did not want to go in at all, but was obliged to. So when he
With voyce, with plaint made horce, wt sobs, and with a foltring tong,
and fired right into the midst of them, so that the feathers flew about.
"I set it on my head and it kicked my face."
"I have been calling on Mortimer, and he pointed you out to me
"There is no need of your knowing," said the man, "for I see yonder a
_Romeo._                         I take thee at thy word.
_fly_.'" It comes in "with an obtrusive incongruity which absolutely
Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.
"Then you are not the true Bride."
"Yes, sir, but the chance of five pounds is but a poor thing
"The Amontillado!" ejaculated my friend, not yet recovered from his
stiff-frozen as they stand.  But the echoes of the chime die away--they
[_Beats down their swords._
the Donkey, seeing that no good wind was blowing, ran away and set out
gave orders that every spindle in the whole kingdom should be burnt.
"You may be right."
The woman's words came with an intense earnestness which carried
sufficient to accommodate 800 people.  Numbers of men have been at work
Joringel was full of joy. He touched the door with the flower, and it
imprudent as to allow the moon to rise behind me?"
When she was seven years old she was as beautiful as the day, and more
you have all the facts and leave you to select for yourself those
"You are not out of all danger yet," said the Fox. "Your brothers were
shown my children three Golden Apples which he has won."
therefore, in assuming that the drama closes on Thursday morning; the
_Romeo._ Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress.
52. _Lies._ Cf. _V. and A._ 1128:--
O any thing, of nothing first created!
_1 Watch._ The ground is bloody; search about the churchyard.
"Am I right?"
found in Bandello's _Novelle_, 1554; and five years later Pierre
"What have I withheld?" she asked defiantly.
29. _Give me a case._ Perhaps Mercutio thinks he will wear a mask, and
And by and by my master drew on him;
servant, who was allowed to go everywhere. The King ordered the man to
9. _I have remember'd me._ For the reflexive use, cf. _1 Hen. IV._ ii.
still bent down more and more trying to look straight into the eyes,
died away as we drove through drifts of rotting vegetation--sad
their side, the stag leapt merrily by them, and the birds sat still
waiting for you if you can bring any more information.
flaggons, cans, cups, beakers," etc. Cotgrave defines _dressoir_ as "a
When the Queen was alone, she began to weep bitterly, and said, "Of
_Romeo._ What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost
"O, behold this ring,
I looked out myself across the melancholy downs. Rain squalls
Thou shalt be logger-head.--Good faith, 'tis day;                 21
had been inquiring for No. 2704," said he. "I've driven my cab
3. 194, _Oth._ iv. 1. 149, etc.
beast with staring eyes is in Redskin's house, and we can't drive him
What place of succor shall he seeke beneth the starry skye?
_Friar Laurence._ Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
bent over too far, or whatever the cause might be, the bough suddenly
take the consequence.  It was as tame and quiet as any ox in Smithfield,
for I was aware that he would never permit cases to overlap, and
When she had spent a long time there, it came to pass that the King of
[Picture: Blackfriars' Bridge]
_Mercutio._ Come between us, good Benvolio; my                    70
When the lord heard that, he cried, "There! he knows who has the money!"
_Paris._ This is that banish'd haughty Montague
and went into it, and found a room with six little beds. She did not
his name, did he? That was imprudent. What was the name that he
99. _Heart's ease._ A popular tune of the time, mentioned in
How nice the quarrel was, and urg'd withal
In the evening when they sat down to dinner, three of them had to make
THE NIX OF THE MILL-POND
great. But the child was sickly and small, and so weak that it had to
syllable. See also i. 1. 92: "Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd
After this line the 1st quarto has the following: "And yong _Benuolio_
will come and help you. My power is great, greater than you think, and
disobeyed the order which had been given her not to say more than three
left, half hidden by the mist, the two thin towers of Baskerville
fighting and is equally ready to take up either side of a
All this, however, is foreign to the mission on which you sent me
[_Exeunt._
the Barrymores, and especially about the surprising development
When well-apparell'd April on the heel
The King commanded the tailor to be summoned, and said, "If you cause
that she showed herself full of love, not only toward mankind, but
creep away."
way in which I can be of service to you I trust that you will
and proportionably high.  This is the principal place for all foreign
91. _Patience perforce._ Compulsory submission; a proverbial expression.
"Well, Jack, you are very hot."
Red-Cap then quickly fetched great stones with which they filled the
be one of the peculiar cases of "double negative" discussed by Schmidt
80. _Cursed._ Because she is not at hand to help. _In extremity_ = at a
poor devil of a convict ran and screamed, even as our friend did,
And light thee on thy way to Mantua;
To have her match'd; and having now provided
and be clear as crystal."
as in _M. of V._ ii. 2. 174, etc.
otherwise by the present owner, who can, of course, do what he
"Dear me!" said Holmes, "he seems a quiet, meek-mannered man
There was once a King who had a son who asked in marriage the daughter
was a prospect of my regaining my freedom if certain expenses
"What servants?" answered the beggar man. "You must do what you wish
will tell you all and you shall judge for yourself.
streams to threads of gold and glowing on the red earth new
liked him, and told him to stay. At last, the cook took him into his
iii. 4. 130: "hang him, foul collier!"
idle, good-for-nothing creatures!" cried they; "we cannot find food
"Oh, yes, Lord King," she answered, "that I certainly can, but on one
His reason for attempting this special line of business was that
from our minds the grim and grey impression which had been left
suit of Paris (i. 3) we see that no thought of love or marriage has ever
that night. I am reckoned fleet of foot, but he outpaced me as
Is but a little way above our heads,                             130
She answered, "I have lost my father's kingdom, and cannot get home
3. 289 and _Hen. VIII._ iii. 1. 17.
herself back at home with them.
arches, descended, passed on, and descending again, arrived at a deep
used to picnic. These infernal people seem to think that there
itself to her. The sky was blue, the air soft, the ground sloped gently
little shirts and went into the forest, and the ball showed her the
O, in this love you love your child so ill
forever buried.
milfoil, and whatever else goats like to eat. "There you may for once
57.  The Link-boy.
bring my brother to life again."
and it called to her:
fashion, and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous
acres.  There are also immense warehouses.  One of them is 762 feet long,
"The time has come," it said to the tailor, "when I can repay you for
to be fitted and plastered in.  I struggled with its weight; I placed
It was in vain, too, that the Bride offered her gold. At last she
"We will set to work on that," said Haensel, "and have a good meal.
was a table in the room covered with delicious food, and the King said
the Bridegroom?"
perceive, upon the right of it. This small clump of buildings
innocent it would be a cruel injustice, and if they are guilty we
"Oho," cried he, "there she comes, and if I once get hold of one of the
and such bad management, too? Watson, Watson, if you are an
"Quick, Dr. Watson, quick, before he passes over the hill!"
exalted.
common in the old dramatists.
is Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who is also an unknown factor,
people very noisy, and some are quite abusive to strangers.
glittered like real silver pennies. Haensel stooped and put as many of
challenge, cf. _2 Hen. VI._ iii. 2. 203. There is also a play on
Some say the lark makes sweet division;
for it, cry out ha!"
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
staircase to be smeared with pitch, and there, when she ran down, had
hand on it.
Nash, _Have With You_, etc.: "We will bear no coles, I warrant you;"
beside you."
conjectured that I had got the number of the cab and would lay my
she might.
"Great News!  Great News!"  "All Hot!  Smoking Hot!"  These are two busy
the other was obliged to follow over whatever ground the foremost rider
acknowledge now that you wrote it?"
about
"That is certainly the dining-room."
England.  As other channels for the disposing of drapery goods arose,
But over the hills, where the Seven Dwarfs dwell,
with such passion." "But," as Knight remarks, "the mind once made up, it
And, in the very moment when she felt the prick, she fell down upon the
yesterday's issue."
smooth. So he stood and said:
good night, there I saw a little house. Before the house a fire was
_Juliet._ If I do so, it will be of more price,
forbidden me."
Now seeming sweet, convert to bitter gall.                 [Exit.
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
_Romeo._ Bid her devise some means to come to shrift
plays for so many purposes."
List of Characters in the Play                           291
of his pocket, and returned them to the King. "If you desire further
"Have you nothing else to complain of?" said the huntsman. "I will soon
Of my child's love. I think she will be rul'd
45. _But ay._ In the time of S. _ay_ was commonly written and printed
if the earthquake happened on the day when Juliet was _weaned_
"Ah, dear Hans," said Elsie, "if we marry each other and have a child,
195. _Some other where._ Cf. _C. of E._ iv. 1. 30: "How if your husband
the page, who surprised the masked and solitary burglar. I cannot
"Perhaps you would kindly give me a sketch of the course of
this singular message. Halloa! Halloa! What's this?"
"Neolithic man--no date."
and the woman: she has learned heroism from suffering, and subtlety from
sound?"
These charity children are coming from church, with the two
which vibrated with excitement.
with the maids and cut off their heads.
so deeply touched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest
whose department it was to deliver the fancies of sleeping men of their
Soon she came to the apple-tree, which cried:
angry, and swore that she should have for her husband the very first
41. _Labour._ Referring to the toilsome progress of time, as in _T. of
Is nowe as quite forgotte, as it had neuer been."
Jorinda wept now and then. She sat down in the sunshine and was
and silver, and cups and jewels, in short, everything which appertained
about two in the morning, I was aroused by a stealthy step
ccx074@pglaf.org
good reason, consider this colour of the eyes as beautiful, and
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
It is clear from internal evidence that it was written by Brooke, and it
pillars on either side, blotched with lichens, and surmounted by
"Exactly. He retained it in his hand after using it to set the
ILLUSTRATIONS
of his being overtaken before he can reach us. At all costs we
27. _Because he married me_, etc. A "female" line with two extra
Then she was terribly frightened, and she said to herself, "What shall
cf. _Much Ado_, i. 2. 4.
"The bodies dead, remoued from vaulte where they did dye,
The Count knew not whether to laugh or to cry. "Such a sweetheart as
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain,
if Shakespeare had not killed him, he would have killed Shakespeare. But
23. _Lie thou there._ See on iv. 1. 54 above. Moreover, as Steevens
"That is a private matter. I cannot tell it."
209. _Should practise stratagems_, etc. Should, as it were, entrap me
shot them away, whereby much was lost; and besides all this it made a
oak-tree, and I want to shoot its left eye out."
and blurred my eyes with tears.
Cathedral, etc. The same name is also given to the light open erections
It was lame of one foot, and limped _hobblety jig, hobblety jig_.
I explained everything to him: how I had found it impossible to
father, put a knife in her pocket, and went forth to the Iron Stove in
beggar woman, to stay any longer in my palace, you may go away with
_Romeo._ Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
And since that time it is eleven years,
following _mangle_. Cf. i. 5. 98 above, and see Brooke's poem:--
on the other side of the street was now proceeding slowly onward
I feel strange. Some misfortune is certainly about to befall us."
"I dare say not. I always thought him sane enough until today,
eat off your little golden plate, and drink out of your little cup, and
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks.
Man met him likewise, and asked him for a piece of cake and a drink of
the Anderson murders in North Carolina, but this case possesses
33. _Shake, quoth the dove-house._ The dove-house shook. It refers of
2. _Parts._ Gifts, endowments. Cf. iii. 5. 181 below: "honourable
home came the father of the Bride. When he saw that his daughter's
scenting out places in the sand where water is to be found.
repeatedly; as in _The Talking Oak_: "O, muffle round thy knees with
affairs."
"Anything which may seem to have a bearing however indirect upon
not made for sleep, but for lingering in moonlit gardens, where the
and again: "It is an impudent part still to gape and crie upon the
from which, with all their coarseness, we start back as from a reality.
COMPANY PHILADELPHIA
There are nearly one thousand children educated here at a time.  The boys
to her despair. A moment before she had said, "I would the fool were
36.  The enraged Ox.
73.  The Funeral.
have yourself had some remarkable experience since you arrived in
276. _Going in._ See on v. 1. 36 above.
Then said the maid, "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down beside
puffing at his cigar. I heard the creak of a door and the crisp
Personally, I am quite well satisfied to read _runaways'_, and to accept
50.  The Paviors.
_Romeo._ Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
Queen died.
They rowed thither, entered, and each Prince danced with the maiden he
scattered thickly over it?"
29. _White-upturned._ So Theobald and most of the editors. The early
_Friar Laurence._ Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
connoisseurship in wine.  Few Italians have the true virtuoso spirit.
the ink have given the writer trouble. The pen has spluttered
cymbals and drums. In the house, barons, and counts, and dukes were
_Romeo._                         For your broken shin.
On the third day, he lay down in the evening hungry under a tree, and
"Beautiful dresses," said one. "Pearls and jewels," said the second.
small achievements you have habitually underrated your own
But he would not allow himself to be frightened, and said, "I must and
To merit bliss by making me despair;
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
visiting-card after waiting an hour in your room."
is intimately connected with the affair. With your permission I
of the clock; and thus it happened, perhaps, that more of thought
I have before spoken.  Throwing them aside, I soon uncovered a quantity
that moment, the thread was quite even; but she went on spinning until
"Good-bye, Hans."
new dish, that she herself went into the kitchen and prepared it. When
pigeons upon the roof, the flies on the wall. Even the fire, that was
"We have books, we have our studies, and we have interesting
and the blackness of the sable drapery appals; and to him whose foot
pitiful one, I hope I shall not be flayed out of it" (that is, out of my
His method had the additional advantage that if they were to take
clutching it. And he hurled it away at this point of his flight.
_Friar Laurence._ A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,      10
tyrant. I have always felt that there was something singular and
One day, in order that they might be able to talk together in quiet,
87. _Unattainted._ Unprejudiced, impartial; used by S. only here.
partly hollow, and saw some wild bees flying in and out of it.
will be there in the twinkling of an eye. Take out the heart of the
syllables.
before one or more windows, common in Italian palaces and not unfrequent
landmarks that I am able to do it."
seemed to be no alternative but to catch him red-handed, and to
_Romeo._ If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep
him to let her go once again to her father. The King's Son allowed her
16. _Drier logs._ For the kitchen; not a slip like that in i. 5. 30.
and would not speak to her. And thus they watched the geese until the
"Hold thy desperate hand!
_Mercutio._ By my heel, I care not.
_Tybalt._ Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
progress and termination of the disease, were the incidents of half an
After she had ridden for a while she felt a burning thirst, and said
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
investigations to this world," said he. "In a modest way I have
it is said, died that very night of what he had seen, and
214. _Manners._ S. makes the word either singular or plural, like
up and looked after it, she saw that it was dancing out merrily into
Till we can clear these ambiguities,
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing Night,
to have a quiet hour by myself to make up my mind. Now, look
But now I see this one is one too much,
tell time. They certainly knew when it was morning or evening. But
the time "by tapping the foot in time with the music, or, more
station, he reformed, founded a priory, and established this hospital for
_Romeo._ A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.--
and your fortune is made."
marriage was a secret one, and Juliet would not have Romeo, if seen,
And the place death, considering who thou art,
the Thames, which prove agreeable retreats to young persons who have been
Are made already mothers. By my count,                            50
watching them, very much puzzled as to what I should do next. To
"Nor never did young lady brave and bright
lives in Coombe Tracey."
large. He caught it by the mane, and wanted to spring on it and ride
I'll go and chat with Paris.--Hie, make haste,
Chapter 10.
about by idle men and boys on the 5th of November, who usually went from
which to bring it."
refers to the future, rather than the past, it may be regarded as a
_Benvolio._ But new struck nine.
wine. But the second son, too, said with much reason, "What I give you
corner, and inspected everything most carefully.
One day, when they had spent the night in the wood and the dawn had
smile in his face, and he did not perceive that my smile _now_ was at
that some are much higher than others. 'Life,' for example is
contentment. They had money and land, and their prosperity increased
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
"Now I am the most beautiful," said the Queen to herself, and ran away.
"Shall I run on and stop them?"
God help those who wander into the great mire now, for even the
morning he was taken before a court of justice, and as he confessed
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live
I had seen him two nights before.
"Then your brother is--"
Holmes considered for a little time.
His Predecessors_ (1895); Dyer's _Folk-lore of Shakespeare_ (American
wood and coals were esteemed the very lowest of menials. Cf. _Hen. V._
wicked brothers were seized and put to death, but he was married to the
him.
motive. No, my dear fellow; we must reconcile ourselves to the
which, as I take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.                   170
Then the wedding was celebrated, and the King's Son and the Princess
at length there commenced the sounding of midnight upon the clock.  And
rise and hand her the little book.
is, that as in infancy and childhood the individual in nature is a
out, and yet he was diabolical as well."
cannot become anything greater."
palace, where the wedding was held with great pomp. She was now the
golden apples, the branch escaped from her hands. And that happened
the judge, who called out:
_Nurse._                         O God's lady dear!
This is what might have been expected, my lad!  You have been teasing and
She asked the miller where the miller's boy and drudge was.
concerned no one but myself I would not try to keep it from you."
42.  St. Dunstan's Church.
importance, in the first of which he had exposed the atrocious
end of it a small wand planted here and there showed where the
"That costs you your life!" cried the Bride, but she hurried into the
and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad, that the Prince
line 7 of the prologue, where the second syllable of _piteous_ is
morning. It is summer, and before daylight. Paris and Romeo come with
Put up your swords; you know not what you do.
_Montague._ Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
and lastly into a third where they were of bright diamonds. He broke
and feet."
of London, there being lamps on each side of the way, but a few yards
Juliet. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
now, Mrs. Lyons, and it is probable that you will very shortly
"Excellent, Watson! And how did you localise me? You saw me,
"_I have eaten so much,
"Have no fear," said the latter to his master. "Go wheresoever they
which might be called slavish, were it not that any variation from the
"But picture to yourself, when I opened your little emerald book, a
Cf. the verb in _Ham._ i. 4. 85, etc.
bough, which sang so delightfully that they stood still and listened
wide his eyes, entered, and saw his wife dressed in beautiful clothes,
164.
obtained. It follows, therefore, that Barrymore, since only this
Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains                140
When the turner had served his time, and had to set out on his travels,
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.     [_Exit above._
Chapter 10 Extract from the Diary of Dr. Watson
Whether shall he (alas) poore banishd man, now flye?
It was not long before they grew quite at home, and played tricks with
would set on the kettle full of water, throw you into it and boil you.
"Was it here?" he asked in a low voice.
love me like salt, your love shall also be repaid with salt.'
fishing-line. Just then a big fish bit, and the feeble creature had not
arrive. I will to-day decide what each shall receive at my death. You
"Yes, I am."
1. 82).
JULIET, daughter to Capulet.
stirred, that it had let him have no rest, so he had been forced to see
much larger, and commanded her to spin that also in one night if she
said to the woman, "Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie
villain whom we expected to see. Instead we were faced by an
Laurence goes forth to gather herbs; and it is
Cf. _Ham._ iv. 5. 164: "They bore him barefac'd on the bier." Knight
old boot and this indifference to a new one. The more _outre_ and
3. An extra unaccented syllable may occur in any part of the line; as in
The tailor examined it on all sides and said, "You did not make a
rate, do not leave me here alone when I am blind, or I shall die of
scene and the time) is a book that I always commend to young people, and
This academy of fine arts was established by royal charter in 1768.  The
116. _Do not swear._ Coleridge remarks here: "With love, pure love,
becomes coherent. Might I ask you to hand me my violin, and we
Thank me no thankings, nor proud me no prouds,
compromised. If your position is innocent, why did you in the
condition of securing his own!
very marked influence over her, for I have seen her continually
very door-step, and there is the ring of its owner. Don't move, I
There art thou happy. Tybalt would kill thee,
(iii. 5. 175):--
When all was accomplished and the King's Son was about to ride home
black-bearded man there was gathering an atmosphere of mystery
"If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
_Tybalt._ Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
"My dearest Child, I have bought the little bird at a great cost! In
When the sun went down, they got out of the forest, and before them in
So find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night._"
It happened that the wedding of the King's eldest son was to be
come to us and admire it. Who knows what good things may be in store
"Perhaps," Said She, "Your Name is Rumpelstiltskin?"             174
_Juliet._ I would not for the world they saw thee here.
The commen welth, and in his lyfe was never found to swerve,
a maze of fantastic tracery in wrought iron, with weather-bitten
over the face of the sky, and just as we came out on the moor a
No pulse shall goe, ne hart once beate within thy hollow brest,
"Well, I've had a good day and no mistake," said the cabman with
44. _Catch'd._ Also used for the participle in _L. L. L._ v. 2. 69 and
A body, were it framed of wax
I have said "by one night's work," but, in truth, it was by two
But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,
Like dancing better on a solemn day."
86. _Cheveril._ Soft kid leather for gloves, proverbially elastic. Cf.
clerk. "He asked me to show you up at once when you came."
"Halloa!" I cried. "What is that?"
She knocked, and a rough voice from the inside cried, "Come in."
198. _A letter._ One letter. Cf. _Ham._ v. 2. 276: "These foils have all
The spindle, shuttle, and needle were preserved in the
Come to beggary at last!
monster, who beat me with a wooden club. And above, upon the roof, sits
his dupe and his tool." She broke into passionate sobbing as she
with him at cards until it was very late. At breakfast, however,
"If you did not do it, then you are not the true Bride," said he.
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
When, therefore, the sun was just above the centre of the wood, the
42. _Green._ Fresh, recent; as in _Ham._ i. 2. 2, etc.
291. _Be._ Cf. _Ham._ iii. 2. 111, v. 1. 107, etc.
they all gathered together from the woods and fields: eagles and
'Romeo is banished!'--to speak that word,
O God, she comes!--O honey nurse, what news?
myself. I trust that Sir Henry is none the worse for his
board for the passengers to walk upon, which they sweep clean continually
touch of tender sympathy and pity is mingled with the maiden wisdom of
But when she next shut the one eye, she forgot to open the other. And
understand that you think out little puzzles, and I've had one
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
as soon as morning came, he placed himself behind the dark gateway, and
But he answered, "I must and will go."
So the drunken squires cursed the shepherd and rode onward.
_Romeo._ More light and light?--More dark and
two days."
unambitious, and absent-minded. It is my experience that it is
themselves, for the very food was fast frozen to the dishes with the
scandal" (White).
understand the joke, and flew in his face, spitting and scratching.
the door.
should cost her her life. She left the hut, went into the midst of the
_Rom._ All beauteous fairness dwelleth in thine eyes.
practical man of affairs it is acknowledged that you stand alone.
that cry of pain from the hound had blown all our fears to the
much. Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman!
15. _Strange._ Reserved, retiring.
You may imagine how terrified the poor boy was! He took his
Then she set good food before them, milk and pancakes, with sugar,
the rest, cried out that they should put the hounds upon
_Lady Capulet._ [_Within_] Ho, daughter! are you up?
the family have been unhappy in their deaths, which have
mean?'
Though all be well, yet he none aunswere hath
He knocked, and a little old woman came out and asked, "What are you
But outside a great storm was raging, and blowing so hard that he
children," and he put the prisoner back into the water.
But she did not understand why she was to keep away. "The others are
material and hue.  But in this chamber only, the colour of the windows
"Good-bye, Hans."
_Romeo._ [_To a Servingman_] What lady is that, which doth enrich the
little plates, and in seven little glasses. The little sister ate a
awoke, and looked at him quite sweetly.
When the King returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him,
that it was homesickness. Although she was many thousand times better
which he, or anyone else, could object."
FRANCES JENKINS OLCOTT.
if only we had a child!" but they never had one.
Madam, good night; commend me to your daughter.
[Illustration: IN THE MOONLIGHT HE SAW A BIRD]
left them. These are his wigwams with the roofs off. You can even
vanish'd." In _R. of L._ 1041 the word is used of the breath.
"What else can that be," thought the miller, "but a young puppy or
went alone the results might be better. The more formal we made
expressed it--in a bold and beautiful metaphor. Let it be remembered
desperate love and grief, into self-conscious strength, would
Wolf might have devoured the grandmother, and that she might still be
_Juliet._                        A rhyme I learn'd even now
with blood as she slept. Then she went to the King and accused the
to the same place. They did not speak much, but they felt comforted.
_Nurse._ Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
and then everything appeared that his heart desired.
But Red-Cap thought to herself, "As long as I live, I will never leave
clothes, and in this way he got to the King's palace.
(belonging to, or becoming) such a greeting. Cf. _Macb._ iii. 6. 48:--
_Nurse._ It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
editors. The other early eds. have "made."
will bring it out to you."
The mother of Hans said, "Whither away, Hans?"
So he did it, and scarcely was it done when the Fox was changed into a
The King's Daughter shuddered, but the King said, "I have taken an oath
But the wicked stepmother was a Witch, and had seen how the two
_Re-enter_ JULIET, _above_
"You come just at the right moment," said he, and laid hold of one of
were fixed on three poles, on the top of the gate, where they remained
That it must, now and then, prick a hole in the sky;
It was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade.  But first let me tell of
Thereupon, while it was still night, he got into a carriage with her,
To hear true shrift.--Come, madam, let's away.
Withouten mouing thus thy ydle parts shall rest,
[Illustration]
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
he recognized his dear wife. And when she looked at him, and the moon
ground, being 1262 feet long, and 699 feet wide.  It was first opened on
Then along the roaring tide,
doubt that it was written by S. It is in form a sonnet, of the pattern
from them when he was keenly interested.
103. _Level._ Aim; as in _Sonn._ 117. 11: "the level of your frown;"
gigantic a sum was involved," said he.
round, with other gems of great value.  Great precautions are taken to
instant we both sat bolt upright in our chairs with all our weary
large it must be; for the further off any thing is, the smaller it looks;
use of the tales.
asleep. On the roof, sat the pigeons with their heads under their
confounded in printing.
was a poor man himself he would devote his last penny to removing
crows, until I find him."
quarto printed in 1597, the title-page of which asserts that "it hath
been illuminated expressly in honour of his arrival.  What would he have
"Go," said the woman, "he can do it quite easily, and will be glad to
THE HEDGE-KING                                                   310
Of her awaking, here untimely lay
_Capulet._ A jealous-hood, a jealous-hood!--
They were telling one another of all the places where they had been
quoted above he adds: "Hereunto if you applye it, ye shall _deliver my
Therefore love moderately, long love doth so;
The next morning, the nurse asked the guards whether any one had come
_Villa Franca_ of the Italian story.
_Enter Chorus._ This is generally put at the end of act i., but, as it
"Love! his affections do not that way tend," etc.
Vatican cameos, and in my anxiety to oblige the Pope I lost touch
Some late visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door;
Many of the crossings in London streets are often very dirty, and some
And therefore thou mayst think my haviour light;
The Prince went to meet her, took her by the hand, and he danced with
Till I to Mantua sende for Romeus, thy knight;
for what is not poetical. The distinction, however, is not so clearly
months ago created so much excitement in Devonshire. I may say
clubs, with which children and strangers are much amused.  Dunstan,
"I well know your desire," said the Cat. "You wish to have a beautiful
The Old Woman appeared to have been expecting them. She rose, and
He then took leave of his parents, buckled on his huntsman's pouch and
had received the telegram himself. Barrymore said that he had.
rose-tree and one rose on it; the children were nowhere. Said they,
turn and frizzle, and the cook gave the boy such a box on the ear that
efforts, that he dared do it. This paste in the tin is no doubt
they were forced to appease their hunger with nettle-plants.
of almonds being blanched, and dryed in a sieve over the fire, beate
servant run for me."
window.
16. _Ape._ As Malone notes, _ape_, like _fool_ (see on i. 3. 31 above),
express office--and he has seen after my simple wants: a loaf of
Extract from the Diary of Dr. Watson
I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam,
And laughs below at lovers' perjuries."
mother was right after all; she always said that whoever trusts in God
_Nurse._ If you be he, sir, I desire some confidence
In his flight he had forgotten the most valuable things he had, the
apparition, exactly corresponding to the hell-hound of the
brought out pretty dresses; dressed themselves before the mirrors,
head. All had vanished, the mill-pond lay peaceful as before, and
"They have treated me shamefully--shamefully. When the facts come
Women_ (several eds., some with the title, _Shakespeare Heroines_); Ten
the man, but half of his body also arose. He stretched out his arms
opportunity--to practise imposture upon the British and Austrian
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
that he could not turn his eyes away. He stooped down and gave her a
"Good-bye, Hans."
When day broke, a voice inside the stove cried, "It seems to me it is
"Ther gan our hoste for to jape and play,
down, and snatched him away, and set him on the high tree.
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,                       180
looked upon as guilty and should be executed. In vain, he declared his
Our crown the pin that thousands seek to cleave."
by. So it ended by his going off with her, as you saw, and here
may suppose the time of v. 3 to be as early as three o'clock in the
_Montague._ Thou villain Capulet!--Hold me not, let me go.
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones;
he wants."
The London express came roaring into the station, and a small,
_Page._ This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.   171
privilege of courting or wooing. For a similar blending of the two
as noon was past. See on i. 1. 157 above, and cf. ii. 4. 105 fol. below.
When he entered the forest, there met him a little old Gray Man who
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,                     70
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
As the shuttle had run away, the girl sat down to sew. She held the
Ash-Maiden went once more to her mother's grave, and said to the little
order in which they had left it.
to-morrow chop me a load of wood, and make it small."
Through the deep and dismal hole.
courtiers by his side.  At first, as he spoke, there was a slight
trenchers flying before him, and he cried aloud before all
Now, the wretch went for the third time to the house-door, knocked at
Respite--respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven                       20
Is a place of residence for students of the common law, divided into two
40. _With some._ The editors generally adopt "by some" from the 1st
_Gregory._ How? turn thy back and run?
It was about dusk, one evening during the supreme madness of the
feathers off, and their swan's skins stripped off like a shirt.
_Paris._ My father Capulet will have it so,
_Plutarch_ and other prose.
Shipwreck'd on a desert coast.
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
134. _Heavy._ S. is fond of playing on _heavy_ and _light._ Cf. _R. of
Partly it came no doubt from his own masterful nature, which
Not a leaf more I'll touch,
have served me so faithfully, that I myself will take you up again."
_Benvolio._ She will indite him to some supper.
anything out of the tangle? I don't know that Watson and I are
iii. 4. 20: "laced with silver." On _the severing clouds_, cf. _J.C._
The latest editors agree substantially with this view. Herford says:
traffic, but the start was too great, and already the cab was out
See also _L. L. L._ v. 2. 212, _Lear_, v. 3. 19, and _Oth._ iii. 3. 178.
adverbs. Cf. _L. L. L._ iv. 3. 103, _Much Ado_, ii. 1. 84, etc.
How durst thou once attempt to tooch the honor of his name?
"I think," said I, following as far as I could the methods of my
The darkness was rising, but much was still hidden by the
SCENE IV. _A Street_
and sought out some bushes with the finest leaves, and let the goat
The Raven
cannot be said to have been entirely cleared up by the
shirt-cuff and hurried off in his strange, peering, absent-minded
Of all he is beloved well and honord much of all.
Come, Night, come, Romeo, come, thou day in night,
"Are you coming up?"
The upper part of it was used of late years as an office for publishing
"Good evening, Mother."
passed a moorland cottage, walled and roofed with stone, with no
"And also," said Holmes, "that someone is not ill-disposed
officers of arms, who ask entrance into the city, to publish his
284. _By and by._ Presently. See on ii. 2. 151 above.
sports, the manners, customs, and folk-lore of the poet's time);
the two said to stupid Hans, "You may just as well stay here; as long
The second said, "I grant that at every word she says, a toad shall
masterpiece, the house is yours!"
"A pretty while these pretty creatures stand,
and gave her a kiss. She said that she would like to go with him, but
a man who meddles with female affairs; used by S. only here.
When she had done eating, they said, "There is a broom for you, sweep
see I'm born still to draw dun out o' th' mire for you; that wise beast
He threw himself on his knees, thanked God for the mercy he had shown
to observe, consumed in my absence two large pots of coffee and
simplicity could get through the world, when they two could not make
14: "A little glooming light, much like a shade." Young uses the verb
stood upon the flat leads of the house. Frankland clapped his eye
be had instantly; and every possible means are tried for many hours,
Lina saw this and said, "Hark you, old Sanna, why are you fetching so
Stay with me. If you will do the work in my house carefully, you shall
Holmes raised his eyebrows in surprise. "I had no idea that so
look upon the countenances of those who entered, that there were few of
were not afraid of him.
your company if you will tolerate mine. Our friends are wise, for
"I've been over a good part of the world since I left it, Dr.
They came to seven windmills whose sails were turning round with great
intention to be fulsome, but I confess that I covet your skull."
dangling behind him. He gesticulated and almost danced with
concord," etc.
207. _Proof._ Used technically of armour. Cf. _Rich. II._ i. 3. 73: "Add
hound beside him as he lay. It all fits together. I don't think
Their course of love, the tidings of her death;
"_Cash._ Why, how now, Cob? what moves thee to this cholar, ha?
and distinct warning of Miss Stapleton, delivered with such
red eyes and a hooked nose, the point of which reached to her chin. She
First was tried here, and condemned to suffer death by his own subjects.
uses _struck_ (or _strook_) and _stricken_ as the participle.
_Tybalt._ Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
she had longed for so much.
At daybreak the boy was already sitting by the well and watching it.
requested that the second daughter should take him his dinner that day.
shot it. He did not notice that he was now in the neighborhood of the
from mere melody. Here, as Elson shows, there is a reference to marking
and again she tried to do so. Stapleton himself seems to have
bounding through the darkness of the moor upon his track. It was
Warm and new kill'd.
"Yes, once or twice, when he came into Coombe Tracey. He was a
head fell upon her chest I saw the clear red weal of a whiplash
single man left.
THE TIME-ANALYSIS OF THE PLAY
me?"
_Benvolio._ And what to?
across."
adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which would form
_Juliet._ It may be so, for it is not mine own.--
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
_Benvolio._ Away, be gone; the sport is at the best.
tailor again, but the son went to a master in the craft.
A terrible scream--a prolonged yell of horror and anguish--burst
_Lady Capulet._ Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn,
"I have great hopes of what Mrs. Laura Lyons may do for us when
don't let them know that they are watched!"
that we have not been shadowed during the last two days. We have
struck by the hawk in the evening," in short he was pitiless.
but I am sent to find those persons whose names are
already bowed, and he walked with a forward thrust of his head
When they had reached the middle of the forest, the father said, "Now,
cheeks, every one gave him work willingly. And when luck was good, the
was placed there, and he was to watch where they went and danced. And
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
All she could say was in vain; the priest was brought, and she had to
_hate_, and it was the _love_ of their children by which Heaven found
and fir. At every turn Baskerville gave an exclamation of
cunning eyes which peered fiercely to right and left through the
his face glimmered white through the darkness.
[Illustration: THEN THE KING'S DAUGHTER CAME TO A LITTLE HOUSE]
from the coats of arms which covered them. The dark panelling
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave to think!--
Then said the Knight, "It is very strange that the tree should belong
17.  Rag Fair and Old Clothes.
I conjure only but to raise up him.
husband he would marry her. His plans were suddenly brought to a
child of ten years old, and before assistance could be procured, he sunk
and mild. On all sides stretched a green meadow, which was set with
which as yet had no name, mingled with the band.
[pilg(e)rim]; _C. of E._ v. 1. 360: "These are the parents of these
pit were loose upon the moor."
Frankland, of Lafter Hall, and Mr. Stapleton, the naturalist,
[_Exeunt._
weight at my heart and a feeling of impending danger--ever present
properties. When he threw it down before him, it unrolled itself and
of them. Scarce a boy in the streets but has in this point outdone even
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
person.  Hence the Court of King's Bench took its name.  Charles the
_Capulet._ Go, be gone.--                        [_Exit Servant._
was the Liston of his day, and was as great a popular favourite as
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
For fair without the fair within to hide.
Contrast the strength of Juliet's new-born heroism in her budding
in the evening she took her proper shape again as a human being. She
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
looked after the Hall for four generations now. So far as I know,
Rose-Red screamed and sprang back, the lamb bleated, the dove
"The godless wretch!" cried the tailor, "to let such a good animal
remove that burden from your heart."
"The probability lies in that direction. And if we take this as a
She went to her Looking-Glass, and said:
was Barrymore. He walked very slowly and circumspectly, and there
are, amongst them, several kinds of arms and instruments of cruelty,
which she had made into hearts and other forms for bracelets and
hospital in order to start a practice for himself. We know there
That God had lent us but this only child,
must be a foreign Princess, for she looked so beautiful in the golden
32. _Truckle-bed._ Trundle-bed; one made to run under a "standing-bed,"
and called out, "Hi! your Reverence! Whither away so quickly? Do not
and they flew out of the window again as Swans.
out fairly?  What! have no little boys, or great girls, been standing up
"I am sure that he would be delighted."
to come before his throne. You should have seen how all the people
(Warburton).
kissed and caressed each other, and rode away together out of the
By the morning light I'm seen:
258. _Untimely._ For the adverbial use, see on iii. 1. 121 above.
It is a beautiful sight to see the sun setting from this place: it shines
"Know then that in the time of the Great Rebellion (the
arranged things very comfortably to have a rest."
Into the sack!_"
things which I have ever known. How did you do it?"
_Romeo._ And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
In this disguise she went over the Seven Mountains to the Seven Dwarfs,
Bar are shut, to show that the jurisdiction of the city is under the Lord
As that of true and faithful Juliet.
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
Which is the god of my idolatry,
Then this one went into her chamber and got her toes safely into the
he's found, that hour is his last," _hour_ is a dissyllable. If the word
"Well, surely his own wife ought to know where he is," said the
dirty and inelegant in its appearance.  Various have been the purposes,
Poor little Snow-White had no suspicion, and let the Old Woman do as
one has flown so high as you."
Three-Eyes sat down and was tired with the walk and with the heat of
_Much Ado_, v. 2. 72, _Oth._ iv. 1. 3, _A. and C._ iii. 12. 22, _Cymb._
their guard. As it is, I have been able to get about as I could
entered his yard.
came to the foot-plank into the churchyard, she said:
2 _Servingman._ When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
"Or it may be that they wish, for their own purposes, to scare me
to be seen.
RUMPELSTILTSKIN                                                  171
"My friend, no; I will not impose upon your good nature.  I perceive
"I could understand anyone saying that the words were from a
The host could not imagine what this could mean, and being curious,
If this your tender Mother knew,
of a very rare type, half Gaelic, half Ivernian in its
case, the clown would not have awakened."
the last of _mutiny_ are metrically equivalent to accented syllables. In
Depart again. Here, here will I remain
Instantly the trapdoor at the top flew up, something was screamed
that Barrymore had some private signal which we had neglected to
Publishers of the Bohn Library.
what Two-Eyes did while she was there, and whether any one brought
fact that we have no case at present, and that it is worth our
pistol. "Look out! It's coming!"
"Alas!" said the girl, "no strawberries grow in winter! The ground is
described in _Romeus and Juliet_:--
_Enter_, _at the other end of the churchyard_, FRIAR LAURENCE, _with a
CLEVER ELSIE
that live at a distance.
opened with great formality.  On the latter occasion, the gates of Temple
several incidents which are hard to reconcile with the settled
possibility he might be in London."
anchor on the Thames, for the purpose of receiving impressed men for the
scion of an old county family which has fallen upon evil days
was the clutch in which it held us. Once only we saw a trace that
Tom Hazard was an unthinking boy, and would not settle to any business at
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Romeo is coming.
possibly draw it away and lay another in its place. The turner had,
dreams, those _children of an idle brain_ (Steevens). T. Warton believes
At first sight it seems impossible for water to run up hill; and yet, by
Henry.
which drove him to his death? It may be lurking among these rocks
Any night, for example, our neighbours the Stapletons might be
pillars, which stand on a semi-circular projection, rising above
need not fear to speak the truth."
_Romeo._ Is she a Capulet?
Look, sir, here comes the lady towards my cell.
_Capulet._ And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
hand towards the rain-lashed window which faced the moor.
into the forest to seek strawberries.
At home, abroad, alone, in company,
As you value your life or your reason keep away from the moor.
Your Pitchy Girl's come back to you!_"
46. _Owes._ Possesses; as very often. Cf. _M.N.D._ ii. 2. 79, _Macb._ i.
Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
to mouth.
building, half constructed, the first fruit of Sir Charles's
immediately in front of us there came one last despairing yell,
and she was more beautiful than any one whom he had ever seen in the
belong to but one man in all the world.
the moor?"
cave in which they lay down to sleep. The two sharp ones waited until
the level of these poor peasants, who are not content with a mere
as there is no such thing as _evening mass_; and Staunton expresses
Every day, the maiden went out to her mother's grave and wept, and she
does not come and blow my legs off my body, for they are as brittle as
partisans of the Montagues wore a token in their hats to distinguish
_Receptacle._ For the accent on the first syllable, cf. _T.A._ i. 1. 92:
illustrated books (yet inexpensive) which may be particularly commended
etc.
They determined to keep him a prisoner in the hole and starve him out.
Marry, go before to field, he 'll be your follower;               60
mercy's sake eat them!"
determination. Accordingly, he now speaks with masculine directness and
1605, the plot to destroy the king and parliament was discovered, owing
The father thought, "Can it be Ash-Maiden?" and had an axe brought and
him from his announced intention of walking home with me. I kept
167. _Retorts._ Throws back; as in _T. and C._ iii. 3. 101:--
first thin wisps of it were curling across the golden square of
etc.
"So far as I can follow you, then, Mr. Holmes," said Sir Henry
impatient gesture he put out the light. Instantly I made my way
brothers. Now let them both be sent for, and invite all our kinsmen. I
[Picture: The hard frost]
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
Why sure that gold cross at the top is so high,
when these strange events began to move swiftly towards their
monstrous? Was there a human agency in the matter? Did the pale,
"_Thou hast eaten with him,
sallies, they are ready enough to look after their own gratification,
distant from each other.  It is said that a foreign ambassador happening
And more there is then you shall nede for halfe of that is there
passage:--
"The queerest perhaps--" said Holmes thoughtfully.
"Because I feared that some false conclusion might be drawn from
4. _Curfew-bell._ As the curfew was rung in the evening, the only way to
imagine that death could be from any but natural causes.
dawn, she sat up in bed and looked at it. And when, through the window,
You may possibly have read my little monograph upon the subject.
76. _As the custom is._ See on iv. 1. 110 above.
leaf, or sang a song, and thought to himself, "God in Heaven must be
forest.
Now Romeo is belov'd and loves again,
it as in the quarto, but his poetic instinct led him to change it in
opinion there is a diabolical agency which makes Dartmoor an
_1 Servant._ Things for the cook, sir, but I know not what.
So she him namde yet once agayne the yong and wyly dame.
not one woman to mourn him.
unmarried, the estate would descend to the Desmonds, who are
proof unto mine armour with thy prayers;" _Ham._ ii. 2. 512: "Mars's
instructions, in fair weather, to the various commanders of ships at the
_distract_ (as in _J.C._ iv. 3. 155, _Ham._ iv. 5. 2, etc.). Spenser has
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
and they had nothing more to eat.
their hate. For _date_, see on i. 4. 105 above.
collection of butterflies and moths the formation of which had
Is an ancient and irregular building, which arises from its having been
This office is a strong stone room, in which are kept the crown, ball,
"You say, Watson, that the lady is not there?" Holmes asked when
ordered a great feast. He invited not only his kindred, friends and
by Edgar Allan Poe
221. _Beshrew._ See on ii. 5. 52 above.
the amphitheatre." Maria Louisa, the French empress, got a piece of it,
_Mercutio._ That's as much as to say, such a case
"Patience perforce: helplesse what may it boot
considers it "a strong instance of the fineness of his insight into the
still stretching himself, so she poked him in the side with her elbow,
impossible that he should fail to hear our approach. However, the
unable to state from what direction they came.  No signs of
that we have never had a foeman more worthy of our steel."
THE END
Within thy help and holy physic lies.
"Oho!" thought the tailor, "a rogue gives more than he has got. If the
_Romeo._ Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,
sequence of incidents which have all pointed to some sinister
and Three-Eyes had seen everything.
parents, as contrasted with her free outpouring flow of words when she
"It certainly seems probable."
One desperate grief cures with another's languish.
the moon illumined the surrounding country he perceived a figure coming
pit for him."
The true Bride waits for you!_"
Holmes said little more, but the picture of the old roysterer
Yet I have told you how, on the first night here, I heard her
(296) is _affrayed_ out of his sleep by "smale foules" (Dowden).
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
are ample and numerous, with pleasant gardens extending to the shores of
Next day, the mother said to Three-Eyes, "This time you shall go and
her peas and lentils into the ashes, so that she was forced to sit and
their terror, carrying their eggs away, but Simpleton said, "Leave the
"Quite so. Well, Sir Henry, I am of one mind with you as to the
_Juliet._ What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
disregard for your instructions. I assure you my cheeks flushed
A short time afterward, the mother sent her children into the forest
strong emotion to such an extent that I could hardly have sworn
brought out the tokens.
wits fail.
Thereupon the King asked which of them he would have for his wife?
Many shot right over it, others hit the ears instead of the stems and
would relieve the tax-payer of a burden."
SCENE III. _Friar Laurence's Cell_
for himself to mar.
And there they are living at this very time.
have been presented, whether S. had written one or not.... Will Kempe
Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
To call hers, exquisite, in question more.
Her father refused to have anything to do with her because she
The quarell eke that long agoe betwene our housholdes grewe:
food in plenty, I will look after them first."
Sir Henry turned to me. "Well, Watson, what do you think of this
poor miller's boy.
Teachers and story-tellers, also, may find in this sincere version,
But on the second day, she began to be lazy, and on the third day stall
the test was worthless and that we have no proof one way or the
connection, after all. I wish to be perfectly frank with you,
itself. Cf. iii. 4. 12 above.
this Mrs. Laura Lyons, of equivocal reputation, a long step will
The woman obeyed all she said exactly. As soon as the full moon showed
For many long years, they drove their flocks through field and forest
Montresors.
for another husband. Am I not good enough for you?"
immemorial." In a sonnet by Drummond of Hawthornden, the gods are
When the appointed time had gone by, the three brothers came back home
as the Little Men had granted to the maiden.
of bed. He thought he must have heard amiss, and rubbed his eyes, and
NEW YORK CINCINNATI CHICAGO
is from his _Shakspere: His Mind and Art_, which, by the way, was
_Hen. VIII._ i. 2. 2: "the level Of a full-charg'd confederacy," etc.
62. _The hate I bear thee._ The reading of 1st quarto. The other early
forgot his misery and comforted himself with the thought that he could
The woman returned home, but the time till the full moon came, passed
Juliet embraces, in a way, all her kindred. His heart, as Talfourd
Blakeway remarks: "I have heard that during the reign of large breeches
over the sea to your own home.
taste which had given character to the masqueraders.  Be sure they were
they which could not be brought to atonement[3] by any wisdom or human
The children grew up, became tall and handsome, and the lilies and
So the man went, and when he came to the palace, the castle had
He swung about his head and cut the winds,
poem. We have seen (p. 25 above) that he refers to the perpetuation of
of prose, but his prose can never be said to encroach upon the domain of
to come out to them. When he went out, they all four confessed that
"Aduise thee well, and say that thou art warned now,
_Mercutio._ And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
it. There's no safety for anyone until he is under lock and key."
And presently took post to tell it you.
But she consoled him and said, "Dearest Father, indeed your promise
"There seems to be danger."
find myself swayed to mercy, let me remember likewise that there is a
"Dear Child, be good and pious, and then the dear God will always
Hath euery dish and cup fild full of sorow and annoye."
With a caution to stop
"He shall not succeed, however," said the one with the cap. "I will
The time and place of byrth, he fiersly did reproue,
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
overheard, as the rhyme in _found_ and _wound_ indicates. The Cambridge
ill-treatment--that she dare not write to warn the man whom she
last echoes of the last chime had utterly sunk into silence, there were
But she looked as stiff as a post, and did not move or show any signs
pealed out from somewhere far off on the shadowy plain. Now it
had reached that dead wall which seemed to be built across every
the shape and the look of the Queen, only she could not make good the
as I? You would not feel me between your teeth. Come, take these two
which had sucked him in, this cold and cruel-hearted man is
_Lady Capulet._ I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;        10
may say that verse is used for what is distinctly poetical, and prose
was strange to see this single candle burning there in the middle
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
spacious.  Its walls had been lined with human remains, piled to the
crescent moon stared steadily back at her. The poor woman did not leave
1927
folks, and the youngest, Three-Eyes, because she had three eyes; and
desire?"
_Enter Chorus._ As Malone suggests, this probably meant only that the
And thou art wedded to calamity.
15. _Take the wall._ Claim the right of passing next the wall when
181. _High top-gallant._ The top-gallant mast; figuratively for summit
pieces. Just summon all our relations hither, and I will make them rich
against the lower curve of its silver disc. There, outlined as
Son. When this ray touched him, he was transformed in an instant. And
88. _Did read by rote_, etc. "Consisted of phrases learned by heart, but
object so strange and so unexpected that we stood for a moment
As no one was now at home, Ash-Maiden went to her mother's grave
ship going into the docks, to be unladen of her merchandise, which will
than at present.  Exercise and sobriety contribute to health, and
into our souls upon the evening before.
not know how to do it."
When the Old Woman had said that, she disappeared from their sight. The
The man, who loved her, thought, "Sooner than let your wife die, bring
_Romeo._ In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
But love from love toward school with heavy looks.
and sceptre, used by the kings of England at their coronation, all richly
long, it had entirely vanished from her sight.
"A beard! A beard! The man has a beard!"
reconciliation of the rival families as the fortunate result of the
her cheeks, though considerably freckled, were flushed with the
They say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
watched her ailing child. Your mission today has justified
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow                       220
where he was. They thought they had done a very clever thing, but it
Mortimer has read to us, and avoid the moor in those hours of
more beautiful than the eyes of man had ever yet beheld. Lilies and
choose the most likely. It is the scientific use of the
SCENE V. _Capulet's Orchard_
'runaways.' In the second edition of Holinshed's _Chronicle_, 1587,
"And how would you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"
and promised to return the following night.
36. _Stay the circumstance._ Wait for the particulars. Cf. _A.Y.L._ iii.
Then he returned and went with his master, who said, "We two ought to
the immortal passado! the punto reverso! the hay!
no such form is found in English, if we may trust the _New Eng. Dict._
"From Charing Cross Hospital?"
It is my lady, O, it is my love!                                  10
was blowing backward and forward. And as they had been sitting such a
_Romeo._ O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do;
sometimes an eagle or a hawk flying over it. This lasted for many
until One-Eye shut her one eye, and fell asleep. As soon as Two-Eyes
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
speed. "Now you shall see what I can do, Father," said the blacksmith.
SCENE IV.--2. _To-night._ Last night. See on i. 4. 50 above.
Nurse to Juliet.
And she so stood, and had not one single thing left. Then suddenly some
Queen's ring was found inside her.
abhor. The law is upon his side, and every day I am faced by the
to do that, he had an axe of silver, while the wedge and saw were of
and again it sounded, the whole air throbbing with it, strident,
out of the silence of the moor. That frightful cry turned the
Is it natural that he should stand for five or ten minutes, as
attempts have been made to explain away the inconsistency. It appears to
the naturalist to return alone. Looking back we saw the figure
usually a great many letters, for he was a public man and well
horror that they were all mottled with bruises. "But this is
by the depending seal, a covenant which his son has made with the
What say ye all now?_"
itself.  In the meantime it was folly to grieve, or to think.  The
"that the maiden is certainly beautiful, but really to blame for the
Then the little sister could not do otherwise, but opened the door for
upon my observations of last night. I will not speak about it
Waking, or sleeping, still my care hath been
upon that fatal night. It is a long, dismal walk, the yew alley,
bring a large sheet with you, and then all will be well."
thought, as far as the Baskerville gates.
despair, a throng of the revellers at once threw themselves into the
Romeo at the critical period of that not dangerous sickness to which
Deserve respect instead of scorn.
again appeared, and said:
again ordered him to bring the Princess, revealed it to him, and told
husband. Will you go this moment? go at once! If he can make a King, he
ugh! ugh!"
On a given signal, therefore, the whole troop rose up in the air. The
the tailor by the throat.
which he weighed every particle of evidence, constructed
A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life,
At length, she got into a forest and it had already become dark, and
The second task was to fetch out of the lake the key of the King's
Presently the maid-servant entered the kitchen, saw the salad standing
drinking before the man's daughter, and milk for washing and wine for
of that lonely man whom I had seen on the same spot two nights
but not too near to it. One night he dreamt that he found a Blood-Red
money stolen. Then he was told about Doctor Knowall who lived in such
I cannot sum up half my sum of wealth.
[Picture: Decorative shield]
He was then about to go further, but the old woman stopped him and
"By no means, my dear Daughter," answered she, "I have met with nothing
cry, Grethel, go to sleep quietly, the good God will help us."
_Enter_ FRIAR LAURENCE, _with a basket_
those who knew it, for before I had reached the road I was
him.
Holmes.
standing on all the tables, so that they nearly broke down beneath it.
They could not, however, reach the city of Bremen in one day, and in
Then she untied her golden garter and put it round the Roe's neck, and
But no sight in the Tower is more interesting than the wild beasts:
"A ridiculously small price for such a precious creature!" they cried
63.  The drowned Boy.
food and a bed. The man with the white beard again asked the animals:
innocence, afforded her invincible fortitude in this trying hour, which,
They were of great service to me, and especially that one
hunger grows greater and greater, and my stomach more and more empty.
full of colored sweetmeats, and they were divided amongst the little
I looked round, with a chill of fear in my heart, at the huge
nature of the Nurse, her foster-mother. The poet would not have dared to
[Picture: London Stone]
It is well that this is so, for it is obviously of the
goat. But as the goat supported the whole of them with her milk, she
fell upon the stick in Holmes's hand, and he ran towards it with
Since birth and heaven and earth, all three do meet              120
"He is in charge of the Hall."
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
That's by me wounded; both our remedies
He, too, pleased the maiden so much that she agreed and said, "Yes, I
such and such a way to her master, and at the same time related the
rampant whose fangs are imbedded in the heel."
18-36. This part of the scene evidently came from the first draft of the
9. _Incomplete_ verses, of one or more syllables, are scattered through
frequently in use.  Now, Sedan Chairs are used only by the sick and
attacked by him, and it may have been the thought of this which
supreme moment when you charged into the empty hut."
came to love (if, indeed, so dark a passion may be known
In mynde to take some frier with him, to walke the towne about."
"Yes, Sir Henry. Every word of it."
mercy!"
"What did you take her?"
But I will write again to Mantua,
making the more intimate acquaintance of my two companions and in
certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged. He meant
court, and with these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
increase its already rather grim reputation. For both these
Of my dear kinsman!--Prince, as thou art true,
might have starved for all that my father cared."
and scratched my face with her long claws. By the door stands a man
bridges, and keep a brisk cry of Boat! boat, who wants a boat?  Oars,
do."
_Enter_ ROMEO _and_ BALTHASAR, _with a torch, mattock, etc_.
tragic events, can possibly do.
This, in truth, his neighbours might have pardoned, seeing
_deserve_ in _Cor._ ii. 3. 120. Cf. Spenser, _F.Q._ iv. 1. 4:--
leave the maiden under the influence of that gross creature till she was
There seems to be one more great person removed from this life, and going
know if you are good to eat or not, but my hunger leaves me no great
eyes. I had pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person."
you forgotten how many King's Sons have already come here in vain? I
tournaments, with a magnificent parade, characteristic of the age.  On
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.--
should send some description of the people who surround us. He is
Juliet's fancy, which plays like a light over every part of her
to heart--so much so that, although he would walk in his own
cannot guess, but there is some secret business going on in this
Sir! sculler, Sir!
wishing to do so. Besides, besides--"
again in his bed.
night through, and in the morning informed their lord of it.
family?"
substance, that the result of the examination will only be to prove her
'Tis the honest truth I tell,
innocence, under such protection, would be reared to virtue and
false step plunged us more than once thigh-deep into the dark,
despair most fits," etc.
cried louder and louder, and could not be comforted.
anger would now be appeased, and who would now willingly receive him
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
has made him a small presentation in return."
Jorinda again?
beautiful woman to live in such a place.
friend in those hours of intense mental concentration during
from it.
fashion. Steevens remarks: "In _Henry VIII._ where the king introduces
_Friar Laurence._ I hear some noise.--Lady, come from that nest
"What do I see?" he cried; "the spindle certainly wants to show me the
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
see it at last.     They have just reached the top of a hill, and catch a
goes out, and you shall bring it up again for me."
three lives."
that he did not know what to do.
it suited the four musicians of Bremen so well that they did not care
strong probability was that we should find the words in
"My dear sir," cried Dr. Mortimer, "it is only mislaid. You will
serve no longer, found himself on the road to the town where the King
bottom with, to preserve it from being rotted by the sea-water and from
take it as they list.
Act I                                                     29
poor Two-Eyes any better for this, she and One-Eye and Three-Eyes were
her parents.
old folk used to live."
want nothing."
been strangely shaken by that sound upon the moor. I will say
If I departed not and left him there.
So the wedding was celebrated, and they lived happily together until
actually observed by Dr. Mortimer. The hound was called off and
From this point onward I will follow the course of events by
does not easily see daylight again."
in weakest bodies strongest works," etc. So _conceited_ = imaginative in
into the wide world to seek them out, and set them free, let it cost
the door but got down near the gate of the avenue. The wagonette
And when they had gone a very long way, they came to a little house.
The Lamplighters are a useful set of men; and they are liable to many
mankind great profit, and no one ever does me an injury. Leave me my
i. 1. 123, _Rich. II._ v. 1. 66, v. 3. 64, etc. Some make it transitive,
time he was not responsible for what he said or did. He was very
Mists of early morning hung;
hopped upon one leg, and shouted:
know nothing. There is this naturalist, Stapleton, and there is
Now, it so happened, that on this very day the Queen lost her most
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
_Sampson._ I do bite my thumb, sir.
"My God!" he whispered. "What was it? What, in heaven's name, was
"sinne." The emendation is due to Warburton; but some editors retain
heartily glad, and was going to the bed of his dear wife to see how she
weaker vessels, are ever thrust to the wall. Therefore            20
iv. 3. 97, _Macb._ ii. 3. 36, _Oth._ v. 1. 4, etc. On the other hand,
The servants sat by the chamber-door, and heard how she thus wept the
Wife_, 1578: "If either he gaspeth or gloometh." Cf. Spenser, _F.Q._ i.
"Ugh! ugh! ugh!--ugh! ugh! ugh!--ugh! ugh! ugh!--ugh! ugh! ugh!--ugh!
the King's Daughter came back, and the old King fell on her neck, and
which he took in my unhappy situation."
"What should I stay?" etc.
again be loosed to our undoing.
52, 57.
"I don't know. It's a sound they have on the moor. I heard it
preceding day. And when Ash-Maiden appeared at the feast in this dress,
_Juliet._ What storm is this that blows so contrary?
the Dragon, was delivered from enchantment, she took the youth by the
As long as he walked on level ground, it was still bearable, but when
said, a toad sprang out of her mouth, so that everybody was seized with
the kings of Scotland used to be crowned, brought to Westminster by
93. _At lovers' perjuries_, etc. Douce remarks that S. found this in
particulars). See also _V. and A._ 844, _Ham._ v. 2. 2, etc.
"Now, tell me, Dr. Mortimer--and this is important--the marks which
to be enquiring where they are going.  We would recommend every person
side, and as he observed by his bag what kind of a trade he plied, he
everything, only make the accursed Kobold creep back into the sack!"
the dirt. From crime to crime he sank lower and lower until it is
With the third, it did not fare any better, for the peasant said again,
should be giving up all chance of bringing it home to them. No,
inhabitants, with a loud voice, to take care of their fires and lights,
"Good day, Hans. What good thing do you bring?"
hotel."
her pick them up again, and clean and brighten them.
entirely absorbed in the pictures of the modern Belgian masters.
other with surprising dexterity. He had long, quivering fingers
strong coarse tobacco which took me by the throat and set me
to have done. Just make a fire at once, and set on water to cook my
v. 2. 214, _Oth._ iii. 1. 32, etc.
Is death misterm'd; calling death banishment
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
I loved her with a love eternal."
come! this do I drink to thee!'"
"I should say not."
They treated her still more cruelly.
Come, my lad, haste away, to make room for a fine coach, full of gay
Till into the high dome of St. Paul's, they, like Thames' waters,
after the excitements of the night. I am conscious myself of a
a little door. A rusty key was in the lock, and when she turned it
embraces the one chance of earthly reunion with her lord--'Romeo, I
isn't like any ordinary convict. This is a man that would stick
_Benvolio._ Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
More torches here!--Come on then, let's to bed.
saw with his own eyes, the goose-girl and the goose-boy bringing their
she caressed it and kissed it, and was beside herself with delight.
and cunning!"
internal emotion. His features were still composed, but his eyes
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
For the use of the Hunt text the Editor gratefully acknowledges the
for the old woman came by day. The Witch remarked nothing of this,
_suspicion_ is a quadrisyllable.
on the ground, and that she neither stirred nor moved, and seemed to
by putting the thumbe naile into the mouth, and with a ierke (from th'
clear case against this very wily man. But I shall be very much
how selfish it was that he should imagine that he could hold a
with fierce merriment.
The shoemaker had to make the shoes in which the little tailor danced
afraid of him.
For a minute I stood there with the paper in my hands thinking
terrible passion, but she hastened back into the room, and said, "I
to his destruction. That Sir Henry should have been exposed to
_Nurse._ Honest good fellows, ah, put up, put up;
saw, in the twilight, two figures coming over the meadow. It was the
Lo here the lucky lot that sild [seldom] true lovers finde:
convulsed, in the first moment with a strong shudder either of terror
Then Joringel was freed. He fell on his knees before the woman and
17.  Spike-shot.
[Footnote 2:
65. _Margent._ Malone quotes _R. of L._ 102:--
where they danced at night, should choose one of them for his wife and
"Going out, Watson?"
This letter," etc.
that he has done?"
pleasant to hear. On an emergency he could keep the hound in the
every wild bumblebee, as her sisters did."
person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In
men in dark uniforms who leaned upon their short rifles and
By any other name would smell as sweet;
to be in town. We hope very soon to return to Devonshire. Will
forehead, and the second, Two-Eyes, because she had two eyes like other
itself, a Gold-Ass, and things of that kind--extremely good things
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb,
"That would be fine gratitude," said the King's Son, "I cannot possibly
shattered nerves. They had called upon us that very afternoon, so
against the glass. His profile was half turned towards me, and
Magazine_ (October, 1866) remarks, the presentiment was true, but Romeo
That fret the clouds are messengers of day;"[6]
Whole no. 161.
And when he got to the well and stooped over the water and was just
It immediately sank into the earth; and one after the other they
eyes, his conscience troubled him.
within us--the body of Sir Henry Baskerville!
"Why cryest thou out on loue? why doest thou blame thy fate?
little to bite and to break; and once when great scarcity fell on the
"Found dead without a mark upon him. You and I know that he died
"Then my reports have all been wasted!"--My voice trembled as I
When he got down, all five of them were sitting screaming and lamenting
neck, since he held his head so awry.
This grand fabric was constructed of cast-iron, under the direction of
So they both came out, and by-and-by the lamb and dove came nearer, and
_Much Ado_, v. 1. 87, _T. of S._ i. 1. 90, 203, ii. 1. 343, etc. So _be
3, and 7 of the prologue. In 1 the last syllable of _dignity_ and in 3
In five minutes we were outside the door, starting upon our
"Ah," replied the Hound, "as I am old, and daily grow weaker and no
"That is a fine thing," said the apprentice, and thanked the master,
"It appears to be a statement of some sort."
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.                            70
The stone cannot be pierced.
29. _Female._ The quartos (except the 1st) and 1st folio have the
When he came to the forest the little old Gray Man met him likewise,
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight;
The lord was willing, and let both of them have a seat in the carriage.
companions" or fencing-school companions. Schmidt defines it as
108. _Hold thy desperate hand!_ etc. Up to this point, as Marshall
groans, of sorrow and of teen," etc.
The Light upon the Moor [Second Report of Dr. Watson]
At night, when he wanted to go home, he asked, "Goat, are you
So now, when she wanted to mount her horse again, the one that was
through deep lanes worn by centuries of wheels, high banks on
event. I mean to teach them in these parts that law is law, and
not the eyes, are meant, on account of their "blue veins" (_R. of L._
An I might live to see thee married once,                         40
Let down thy hair,_"
[Illustration: THE ELDEST GOT THE MERRY TAILOR FOR A HUSBAND]
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow,
societies, called the Inner and the Middle Temple, which, with the other
homely folk and do not wait for formal introductions. You may
light of the candle from over the rock--the face of Selden, the
Morning Star arose, and gave her the drumstick of a chicken, and said,
astounded to see Miss Stapleton sitting upon a rock by the side
Murther'd her kinsman.--O, tell me, friar, tell me,
"_Cock-a-doodle-doo!
Cf. ii. 2. 103 below.
on their feet, lived there. Their daughter, however, they did not see.
prince had provided all the appliances of pleasure.  There were
Oh, I will eat first."
weather is so severe.
gave the maiden several blows, and said that if she did not obey, it
has claws beneath her gloves. She is a Witch."
draught in case you are thirsty."
Marshall prints "some thing," as in the folio.
the long _s_ and the short. It is one of several indications
Then the youth said, "I am not afraid. I will go and see the beautiful
The freckles started out on the lady's face.
"Oh, they are ignorant people. Why should you mind what they call
speech and pleasant of devise,' into that splendid union of the knight
All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
Hall. Tomorrow some other little problem may be submitted to my
They seated themselves beneath an oak-tree, and took counsel together
the explanation given by Hunter and adopted by Delius, Schmidt, Daniel,
May pass the summer's eve away,
this practice of poisoning prevailed to a considerable extent in England
_Romeo._ Your plantain-leaf is excellent for that.
_Enter_ PRINCE, _with his train_
COPYRIGHT
THE GOLDEN BIRD                                                  187
To County Paris, to prepare him up
hateful task. Still, I could see no better course than to observe
"This is most important," said he when I had concluded. "It fills
natural and pure and honest; not a word of reproach for the course of
passion."
until very soon the whole room was covered with them.
meaning.
sir, but I bite my thumb, sir.
_Cob._ Collar, master Thomas? I scorn your collar, I sir; I am none
until he becomes accustomed to his new surroundings. Will you
for the--No, I know it begins with some other
_Peter_: iii. 4(7); iv. 5(30). Whole no. 37
She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?--
wrung him by the hand.
and a court of _pie-powder_ is held daily, to settle the disputes of the
career. But how could I know--how _could_ I know--that he would
And now the maiden lived quite alone in the little house, and was
deeply moved by that which he told us. Holmes leaned forward in
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love.
The first impression left by Mrs. Lyons was one of extreme
upon his mind.
_Mercutio._ Nay, an there were two such, we should
"There is something wrong about Two-Eyes, she always leaves her food
better guide than I. Good-bye, and never hesitate night or day to
"Most certainly."
Then they were going to bury her, but she still looked as if she was
is nothing but cabbages." At length he thought, "At a pinch I can eat
SCENE IV.--Mercutio is thus described in Brooke's poem:--
Then was she afraid, and thought, "Alas! What use could I have with
the sound; and thus the waltzers perforce ceased their evolutions; and
with one rose on it.
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
80.  The Coach-stand.
email me on this.  Thanks! Michael S. Hart, hart@pobox.com
"Every one."
A tall man had stepped from the shadow of the porch to open the
_Peter._ I saw no man use you at his pleasure; if I
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it;
There was once a man and a woman, who had long in vain wished for a
Perched, and sat, and nothing more.
overwhelmed by this sudden and irrevocable disaster which had
7. _Give leave awhile._ Leave us alone; a courteous form of dismissal.
64. _Commission._ Warrant, authority. Cf. _A.W._ ii. 3. 279: "you are
On every syde above were set, and eke beneath,
here, Mr. Holmes, it's half-past eleven now and I am going back
any doubt of the misfortune.
that her father had forgotten her. As they had food for only a short
he liked, that was of no use!
I remembered the case well, for it was one in which Holmes had
eye; but it is more probably = heavenly eye, as Schmidt gives it. In _V.
place, the door of their room was left open.
Mercutio. Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.--
Hardly was a little bird
Then the enchantment was at an end. Everything was released from sleep,
means are present: it is a very affecting spectacle.
Merchant of Venice_.
The Old Woman looked up just a little, then she said, "Now, my little
thy mood as any in Italy, and as soon moved to be
London, and to do their duty to God and to their neighbours; which will
Folded together on her modest breast
_Romeo._ It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
[Illustration]
"Yes," said she, "now I am Emperor."
Then in the fear of his heart he cried, "Dear Mr. Bear, spare me! I
_Astrologaster_, 1620, says that "if a man stumbles in a morning as soon
kitten?" and he promised her what she desired.
almost to the heart. In the evening he fell down by a tree, and on the
halls, etc., but it usually signifies a tower which has the whole
_Benvolio._ An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art,
rain beating upon my face and the wind whistling about my ears.
remained in the castle, which was much larger than the castles of their
bed and listened intently. The noise could not have been far away
_Romeo._ Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
fathers. But, as the old King grieved at being left alone, they fetched
The people about Court did not know what use to make of him, but they
He followed the sound, and at last came to a high tree. In the top of
"But, hark, what is that?"
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
will devour you all--skin, hair, and all. The wretch often disguises
on it, and a wine also which gladdens the heart. Just invite all our
the Second, on his restoration, caused it to be erected again.
156. _To hear._ _As_ to hear; a common ellipsis.
which was a camp-bed, or a bed on the ground.
all this, and we are not in a position to do it."
walls rattled a little, and when the King and Queen looked round, the
Instantly the little Cudgel came forth, and fell on the innkeeper, and
_Benvolio_: i. 1(51), 2(20), 4(13). 5(1); ii. 1(9). 4(14); iii. 1(53).
bring him down."
hath the more incouraged me to publishe it, such as it is."
Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
But with a rearward following Tybalt's death,
tears.
of the castle. It galloped as quick as lightning thrice round it, and
difficulty to obtain materials and employment.
Steevens and others. Theobald suggested "auborn," and it has since been
the geese were coming home from the pasture, and uttering their hoarse
The store of springes that serue for vse, and eke for ease:
disguised myself so. And I, also, was the soldier who rode through your
The second, 'I love my Father as dearly as my prettiest dress.' But the
weakest goes to the wall.
Chapter 15.
the forest.
234. _Is it more sin_, etc. Mrs. Jameson remarks: "It appears to me an
More honourable state, more courtship lives
the coroner said. Look at the noises on the moor at night.
prevents the flames from spreading further. {29}
make one false move the villain may escape us yet."
master's daughters gave him a kiss beneath the porch, as well. When he
see them.
I will withdraw; but this intrusion shall,
"A cunning preparation of it," said Holmes, sniffing at the dead
12. _Jack._ See on ii. 4. 127 above.
And bound it up again._"
mill-pond, seat yourself on the shore, and comb your long black hair
essay entitled 'Is Disease a Reversion?'  Corresponding member
me to help the rascals in any way."
them will prove the barbarity of Spain at that period.
splendid castle. Near the castle stood a tree, and quite on the top of
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
he broke prison, sir. He knew that I was here and that we could
"Mrs. Lyons," said I as I rose from this long and inconclusive
Hornbook_: "on the very rushes where the comedy is to daunce."
And all things change them to the contrary.
them.
"What do you require for it?" asked the youth.
go on the frozen river, cut a hole in the ice, and rinse the yarn.
a smart kick with his hind foot. The Cock, too, who had been awakened
and I remembered that I had heard someone describe her as being a
with their dear little daughter, who soon grew strong and every day
or more times. Milton also uses it often.
34.  St. Paul's Cathedral.
_Capulet._ O heaven!--O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
And my wife keeps a sausage-shop, not many miles
porter says, "_God save the King_!" and the ceremony closes with a
hair hung over his face down to his knees. They bound him with cords,
soon saw that, and slipped away.
_Capulet._ Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
himself intimates and the lady declares (iv. 4. 11 fol.), he had been a
When she came to Mother Holle's house, she was not afraid, for she had
crenelated, and pierced with many loopholes. To right and left of
shed a light. Your interview with the lady has cleared the
a poetical version of it was published at Venice in 1553. It is also
"But she that never cop'd with stranger eyes
hardships were not so great as you imagined, though such trifling
vulgar; so, from being wiser than his neighbours, he was deemed a
should intrude if I were to call this afternoon and make the
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art;
They gazed at all this for a long time. At last they took heart, and
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
in which King Edward the First placed a magnificent cross, in memory of
The goat answered:
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
peremptory way to his sister, who, after an irresolute glance at
infantry and afterwards by watchmen. The _partisan_ was "a sharp
We know at least that he came so far in safety."
"Move your light across the window, Watson!" cried the baronet.
boarding ships.
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin:
The wheels died away down the drive while Sir Henry and I turned
_L. L. L._ iv. 3. 191, _M.N.D._ i. 2. 39, _A.Y.L._ i. 1. 34, _T. of S._
much of it in the form of alternate rhyme. The alliteration, the
him, like the eldest, a cake and a bottle of wine. The little old Gray
Of whome her hart receiued so deepe, so wyde a wound,
It was as cold as a block of marble.
immediately our impression of Juliet's character would have been
But send him back.
and all the courtiers, and was eating from her little golden plate,
perceived that there was no getting the better of the six in this way.
room was perfectly clean, as if the little Mist Men, who carry no dust
people, and destroy my nest, our stings shall pierce your skin like ten
and said, "It is not a dress for a servant-girl."
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
which they handled with so violent a rudeness, untenanted by any
_Enter_ LADY CAPULET
know. It is time that you kept your promise and gave me a full
he and his wife are as respectable a couple as any in the
121. _Untimely._ Often used adverbially (like many adjectives in -_ly_);
Then the Wise Woman said, "Wipe away your tears, Two-Eyes, and I will
"Humph! Sweep for yourselves," she answered, "I am not your servant."
city marshal within demands, "Who comes there?"  The herald replies, "The
poor Two-Eyes, and they pushed the golden apples which she had been
It is the parents who are punished. The scourge is laid upon their
The face of Stapleton had sprung out of the canvas.
iv. 5. 175.
22.  The Twopenny-post Boy.
"My dear fellow, you must trust me implicitly and do exactly what
to me that we may eat together."
Citizens of Verona; Kinsfolk of both houses; Maskers, Guards, Watchmen,
she went over the Seven Mountains to the Seven Dwarfs, knocked at the
And hire post-horses. I will hence to-night.
across county, and he was forced to run after it.
also were of iron, and the windows were guarded with iron bars. There
street, and buys old clothes of those who have got new ones: or sometimes
"He! he! he!--he! he! he!--yes, the Amontillado.  But is it not getting
the King promised to grant him his life, and the Golden Horse as well,
the intention of licking the rest of his poetical progeny into shape for
been so knocked about that I can hardly imagine a town
was an excursion of some miles across the moor to a place which
"I have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly
Who drinks of me, a wild Wolf be!_"
beautiful castle and be content."
amongst the Knights, and was recognized by no one. The King's Daughter
Grethel presents Hans with a piece of bacon.
through the telescope upon the shoulder of the boy. It contained
the gold that she would give her.
of gold hanging among them, so that in all the wide world there was
305. _Glooming._ Used by S. only here. Steevens cites _Tom Tyler and his
music together. The Donkey brayed, the Hound barked, the Cat mewed, and
with the Old Man, and did not concern herself about the animals, and
My life were better ended by their hate
that all would pass off peaceably.
anything of Sir Henry, until I came to the point where the moor
them, and did what she desired.
A brave fellow! he keeps his tides well."
painful to us. I fear that we shall never again be easy in our
part of the face, and over it two dark eyes--eyes full of grief
as that had never come under the King's notice, and he said, "When you
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nurs'd;
But when he began to hew down a tree, it was not long before he made a
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
getting some dinner and then, Lestrade, we will take the London
36. _In._ Into; as often. Cf. v. 3. 34 below.
save upon those not infrequent occasions when he was up all
"No," said Holmes; "did you?"
counsel you by way of caution to forbear from crossing the
15. _My earth._ My world or my life; rather than my lands, my landed
promoting industry, that when maids were idle, worms bred in their
I think you are happy in this second match,
at night, if they did not sleep through it, not one of them knew how to
The old tailor was now alone with his goat. Next morning he went down
told the truth, and when they saw that they were betrayed, and that
83.  The hard Frost.
8: "After the prompter, at our entrance" [ent(e)rance]. See also _T. of
instinct is always to do something energetic. But supposing, for
maiden was placed in an upper chamber, while Hugo and his
and _snip, snap,_ they were cut off, and the lovely braids lay on the
mountain. Then he said, "Oh, what treachery there is in the world!" and
He took her by the rope and conducted her to green hedges, and amongst
how she had come by such great riches, she was anxious for the same
Not long afterward, the country was overrun by war. The King gathered
flint-tipped arrow on to the string of his bow, you would feel
said he, "but it seems to me we've got a bit off the trail so far
empty, a full one instantly took its place. The innkeeper stood in
and with precious jewels, that her very soul was delighted. Therefore,
number." Cf. _Sonn._ 136. 8: "Among a number one is reckon'd none."
The Wardens, or Yeomen Porters of the Tower, wear a uniform, the same as
And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,
in them? or drawing them up and down the house and yard, to wear out the
sides of this interior crypt were still ornamented in this manner. From
_Tybalt._ Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
wound them round one of the hooks of the window above. And then the
Cf. Dekker, _Match me in London_: "See at my girdle hang my wedding
and place, and the childlike fondness of repetition in a second
_pursue_, _contrary_ (see note on iii. 2. 64) and _contrary_, _contract_
in the streets, she would be mocked and laughed at by the people. Then
sun shone on his hair it glittered and flashed so that the rays fell
both have been invaluable."
came with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to
Is thought to be the largest room in Europe unsupported by pillars, being
_2d Capulet_: i. 5(3). Whole no. 3.
But how the maiden was changed! Such a change as that was never seen
The same with his owne hand (thou seest) doth poyson himselfe to death."
72. _Do him disparagement._ Do him injury. Cf. "do danger" (_J.C._ ii.
"What is this, Perkins?" asked Dr. Mortimer.
my own obvious interest in the matter, and that is why I bring
conceptions of the characters;" and yet we cannot doubt that both were
was not a pure mastiff; but it appeared to be a combination of
_Paris._ Younger than she are happy mothers made.
"Well, mislaid it, anyhow. I put them both outside my door last
child his new coat and forbid him to wear it." See also _Macb._ i. 7.
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
A succession of loud and shrill screams, bursting suddenly from the
81. _God shall mend my soul!_ Cf. _A.Y.L._ iv. 1. 193: "By my troth, and
colder season.
is completely delivered from the life of dream, completely adult, and
53.  Westminster Bridge
shame to such a beautiful beast, if I do not give him the good saddle
me. You see, if I am to be squire down there I must dress the
"But we had no trouble of any kind."
"To see Mrs. Laura Lyons?"
_Mercutio._ Good king of cats, nothing but one of
to marry Paris. The old man at once decides to have the wedding
An enemy fierce and all-powerful then,
track in the streets."
him!" He spoke unconcernedly, but his small light eyes glanced
2. 45), stars (_M.N.D._ iii. 2. 188), a theatre (_Hen. V._ prol. 13),
that there was a little old table in his lumber-room, which looked
deceived me!"
anticipation that the Nurse enters with the news of Romeo's banishment;
_Nurse._ God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
grounds, nothing would induce him to go out upon the moor at
feathers on their heads. They were harnessed with golden chains, and
and in it an old woman, who was a Witch, dwelt all alone.
"_Three-Eyes, are you sleeping?_"
repeated in this speech; as in Romeo's in the next scene (19-50).
10. _Civil._ Grave, sober. Cf. _M.W._ ii. 2. 101: "a civil modest wife,"
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
anxious to send Perkins and the wagonette home, and the
each mug, for she did not wish to take all from one only. Then, as she
ashore by a press-gang, who took him on board a man-of-war, from which,
"Alas," said he, "she wants to be like unto God."
nature itself, the unity of feeling, is everywhere and at all times
miles away, over yonder, I think."
participles is printed _-'d_ when the word is to be pronounced in the
separated from it, like the _Juliet_ in i. 5. 145 above. _By and by_ =
"I had a school," said Stapleton. "It was in the north country.
little more than a child--still childlike in the expression of the new
it into the fine one, or it may go badly with you."
And banquet be prepared here;"
certain longer words; as _commandement_ in _M. of V._ iv. 1. 442;
marble statue.  It may be of service to the busy Englishman, sprightly
swashing outside."
Baskerville demon, and which could not possibly be any animal
When the hour had arrived for him to give his answer, he took the three
vexed me so sorely. I swear that another day shall not have
9. _Marchpane._ A kind of almond-cake, much esteemed in the time of S.
When the Dwarf saw that, he screamed out, "Is that civil, you
"Unless I can help you."
Immediately the hair fell down, and the King's Son climbed up.
survive;" and _Cor._ iii. 2. 121: "Lest I surcease to honour mine own
131. _All so soon. All_ is often used in this "intensive" way.
[_Opens the tomb._
Marshall adopts:--
water-side; and as it proves a very rich manure, he finds it a profitable
are fresh and well, so it is all cheerful once more."
And when the sentence had been carried out, the young King married his
forgetful of his duty as the other! Ye shall no longer make a fool
cried aloud with delight as he recognized the familiar features
"Child," said the old woman, "what a fright you look. Come, I will lace
I saw his dark face lit up with a boyish enthusiasm as he gazed
but the owl came forward, and he drew his head back. Then the owl
been me, instead of my effigy, which these rascals burned at the
"Good day, Hans. What good thing do you bring?"
last speech of Romeo's and a former one (i. 4. 103 fol.) in which he
the moon. Was he also out in that deluged--the unseen watcher, the
49. _Distraught._ Distracted. S. uses the word again in _Rich. III._
neither apples nor pears, nor any other sort of fruit, everywhere there
the stranger put his hand in his pocket and brought out two gold
"Now throughout Italy this common vse they haue,
The very great improvements already made from Temple Bar towards St.
passionate, love true from first to last to the divine law of
put on, and gave her bread-and-butter and cake to take with her.
As he went down he saw the two Donkeys running about in the courtyard.
My feelings towards him were very far from being friendly after
my ball back again." She, however, thought, "How the silly Frog does
68. _Lives in the sea._ Is not yet caught. The bride has not yet been
foresee some things which have happened since I have been on the
disused tombs, while the reference here is to a family tomb still in
he was growing more and more unfit for work.
So it went on cooking, and the Porridge rose over the edge. And still
Romeo to her arms, there is something so almost infantine in her perfect
Then the blasts of the horns, the barking of dogs, and the merry shouts
And bear this work of heaven with patience;
Eche takes away the others hart, and leaves the owne behinde.
the forest, and will die of hunger in it."
certainly ought to be able to get on in the world!"
For in a minute there are many days.
5.  A lance.
And from her womb children of divers kind
"Ha! Did they know that they would receive this?"
The servants sat by the chamber-door and heard her weeping the whole
birds; they fly and can reach them, but a man never."
blindfolded, should see how to reach the lover's heart" (Dowden). _View_
door, which, on many occasions, has been found very useful.
numbers that Petrarch flowed in; Laura to his lady                40
his rudeness of the morning, and after a long private interview
"Exactly," said Holmes, "however foolish the incident may seem.
From that time forth, no one would any longer venture into the forest,
leaving the keeper, as they supposed, dead, or stunned with their blows,
yet they were so far from it!
_Capulet._ And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
Then the King's Daughter was led through the ranks, but to every one
not take any notice of her, but went and looked at the cages with the
"Alas!" answered Two-Eyes, "I suffer from hunger and thirst, grief and
not wait any longer. "Ho, there! Grethel," she cried to the girl, "be
the stranger neither wit nor propriety existed.  The figure was tall
have permitted Sir Henry to fall in love with her?"
and threw them in Grethel's face. Then Grethel became angry, tore
but Watson will leave his things as a pledge that he will come
"It was very essential for Stapleton to get some article of Sir
thing which has just been born in your house."
not imagine, but it seemed to me that Stapleton was abusing Sir
Dyce remarks: "Even in the days of the Romans, _R_ was called _the dog's
A sudden idea occurred to me, and I took the candle from the
On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o'er,
That were some spite; my invocation
not suffice to account for such divergence as this. "The two dialogues
_Mass._
have to look on and see the sun and moon rising, I can't bear it. I
38. _Who._ Cf. i. 1. 109 and i. 4. 97 above.
cannot last much longer."
called the youngest, a soft voice cried, "Dear Mother, I am in the
But, soft! what day is this?
He entered the house, and was well received and courteously
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
that such a presentation would be made? When would his friends
And whilst she was sewing and looking out of the window at the snow,
though not published until 1599. After referring to _Venus and Adonis_
Thou hast had no thought for us,
is the crime and how was it committed? Of course, if Dr.
for many years, and she had a beautiful daughter.
us. To rake this up couldn't help our poor master, and it's well
So away he ran after the coach, took all four shoes off the feet of
And now the old cook herself got on her legs, and went, with the three
cork, and a card, and we add him to the Baker Street collection!"
But the dining-room which opened out of the hall was a place of
_Prince._ Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
great golden tassels. Then the doors of the hall were opened, and there
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
assassinations are committed during the heat of summer" (Johnson).
"_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, I pray,
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
and proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two,
the vision embraced but little more than one at a time.  There was a
an unambitious one who abandons a London career for the country,
_Enter_ ROMEO
"This time you may do it with safety. If I had not every
interest which he took in our curious companion. "I presume,
brisk a while, and the longer liver take all.
perhaps you can do that."
might always have the means of setting him upon his track. With
met him, and as the fox looked quite disturbed, he said, "What is the
Sir Henry. Watson here knows more about my methods than you do,
92. _Canker'd with peace_, etc. _Canker'd_ (= corroded) is applied
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl,
And that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath
for face, as in _M.N.D._ v. 1. 11: "Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt,"
49: "Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air." S. uses the
telling one another of all kinds of things which they had seen in the
"Look at Sir Charles's death! That was bad enough, for all that
assassin, from whom he received a wound in his arm, which was given by a
to her. For three years she has had to tend the geese. With them
There he was, sure enough, a small urchin with a little bundle
comes one of my master's kinsmen.
[Illustration]
as possible, so as to reach London in the afternoon."
_Rich. III._ iv. 4. 89: "a garish flag."
"Well," said the wife, "if you won't be King, I will. Go to the
left! On that side a ridge of rocks ended in a sheer cliff which
Outside the sun was sinking low and the west was blazing with
"But now what shall betyde of this gray-bearded syre?
And whom they should see maried, they follow to the graue.
the tops of the houses; and if an engine arrives in time, it frequently
"Husband," said she, "if I can't order the sun and moon to rise, and
saw one of the moor ponies wander into it. He never came out. I
Mrs. Barrymore, paler and more horror-struck than her husband,
drawing near, she called her only daughter to her bedside and said,
shorter by the head."
The servant, however, thought he intended by that to say, "That is the
Alone by the wall?
The youngest cried out again, "Something is wrong, did you hear the
Hindhead,
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
no grace, nor uncle me no uncle," etc.
towards the truth. Not that you are entirely wrong in this
When, therefore, she was led to the stake, she laid the shirts on her
The whole steep slope was covered with grey circular rings of
_Juliet._ Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
I have told you that the corridor is broken by the balcony which
The goat answered:
Once the King gave a great feast and invited thereto, from far and
O' Thursday let it be; o' Thursday, tell her,                     20
away from him, and into the garden behind the house. Therein stood
could not get loose again, and died a miserable death.
when you go to bed, and before you come back from the place where you
PROLOGUE
"That suits me well," said the tailor, "for then I shall have no need
The Old Woman, however, nodded her head, and said, "Oh, you dear
_Id._ v. 2. 10: "For he hath been five thousand years a boy." Furness in
to stay below and cannot work their way through. But now, when the sun
great; and in such a case as mine a man may strain
yet very different in _Hen. V._ iv. 6. 15 fol.:--
To soar with his light feathers, and, so bound,                   20
_Nurse._ Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,                   110
us."
upward between great masses of rock. Thorns and briars caught her feet,
The Horse Armory is a large apartment, containing, amongst many
halting off;" _Sonn._ 141. 9: "But my five wits nor my five senses."
69. _Mercutio._ Mercutio here figures among the invited guests, although
Winter's Tale_.
The King's Son said he was to send her up to him; but the mother
to their father. But they did not know how to find the best opportunity
"Yes," answered she, "I know the stag well," and thereupon a little dog
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
discovered the real character of her father and mother, and to have been
the low hill beyond with the thornbush upon it? It is the
sank almost to a whisper as he answered.
xxiii.) says that, while the time for mass is regularly before noon, it
would give my sister such a fright that I do not feel justified
"No," said the Cat, "you must first do something more for me of the
_Enter_ CAPULET _in his gown, and_ LADY CAPULET
our feet. Its tenacious grip plucked at our heels as we walked,
last degree. It is not what we know, but what we can prove. If we
remain an unknown factor in the business, ready to throw in all
prospect from the iron gallery.
the pleasure of introducing you to my sister."
But 'banished' to kill me?--Banished!
"True--true," I replied; "and, indeed, I had no intention of alarming
Whose fathers pryde first styrd the strife which both your householdes
this kind, but I need not tell you that it means a very great
murmured, no bird sang, and through the thickly-leaved branches, no
Thomas Gresham, a merchant, laid the foundation in 1566, and Queen
house, but Holmes halted us when we were about two hundred yards
The youth lay down beneath the tree, but kept awake, and did not let
and said, "Hark you, Fisherman, if you will throw me back again into
thy swashing blow.                               [_They fight._   60
shaved only great people, and he too already looked upon the house as
Bride for him, whose face was as ugly as her heart was wicked. The
the case, and especially the relations between young Baskerville
Sherlock Holmes drove with me to the station and gave me his last
the road as long as his eye was on me, and then I struck off
grass upon either side. At the far end is an old tumble-down
below.
back to my room, and very shortly came the stealthy steps passing
see, only a very few scattered dwellings. Here is Lafter Hall,
of the truth. I came away baffled and disheartened. Once again I
of 1666, which stopped within three houses of it.  There are two savage
"Surely," said I, "surely that is something at my window lattice;
would not have it.
She reached him the whole of her piece of bread, and said, "May God
interpose and "delay the marriage for a month, a week," refuses to
Barrymore at the window, and now I have quite a budget already
_Lady Capulet._ He is a kinsman to the Montague;
Children, pile up some wood, and I will light a fire that you may not
What's there?
one wanted to carry you off, and give you your death blow?"
wild, disorderly way of living, so that they never came home again. The
black smudge on the silvered slope which showed where the man was
cause a frost to come, before which the fire shall be ashamed, and
I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
thought she was his Bride. She was conducted up-stairs, but the real
morning."
do. Go straight forward. At last you will come to a castle, in front
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!
kingdom. But, as he had only twelve golden plates for them to eat out
_Lady Capulet._ O me, O me! My child, my only life,
and no one has seen her since.
love_ lacks a _cover_; the _golden story_ must be locked with _golden
105. _Two and forty hours._ It is difficult to make this period agree
same solemn and measured step which had distinguished him from the
The only son of your great enemy.
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve                  10
were gone, he rose and climbed up to the summit of the mountain.
being to give them a mouthful of bread. Their need was so great that
were red and glanced at me from between swollen lids. It was she,
"Thick! It is intolerable."
Etexts as easy as possible to find and work with, but, not to "pad" our
The King mourned, but he did not think that the Queen had done this
"What is the object of these questions?" she asked sharply.
miserable look.
that other clue which was to be sought for among the stone huts
SCENE V. _Juliet's Chamber_
himself by the eldest. On the shore they took leave of their Princes,
with Two-Eyes, when she went to drive her goat to the pasture, to watch
man is fortunately rather deaf, and he was entirely preoccupied
"Who can be merry when his neck is in danger?" answered the Cat.
SCENE III. _A Churchyard; in it a Tomb belonging to the Capulets_
"Yes, I thought it as well to take them."
little girl.
_Juliet._ O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
I praise him each morning, and pray ev'ry night,
Ay, let the county take you in your bed;
speed, and yet no wind was blowing either on the right or the left, and
Barrymore. Barrymore had passed it on in order to help Selden in
derision, or in a spirit of prudery, yet more gross and perverse, have
little that I am still very hungry."
Then he put his cap on straight, and immediately there came such a
day."
letter posted up to early morning would reach Sir Henry before he
disinterestedness by which it is distinguished from the counterfeits of
With feverish haste we had turned the body over, and that
whether it is early or late for the orchids. But you will come
Bear ran away quickly, and was soon out of sight behind the trees.
For such a wish! he was not born to shame;
my door for fear of the rough huntsmen, so knock and say, 'My little
Rose-Red. Rose-Red liked better to run about in the meadows and fields
direction save along the straight path which leads from Merripit
_Staple of News_, v. 1: "I do confess a swashing blow." Cf. also _swash_
said as it ran:
water, and how her tears did flow down over her cheeks! "Dear God, do
41. _God shield._ God forbid. Cf. _A.W._ i. 3. 74: "God shield you mean
_Enter_ Apothecary
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
and she promised to deliver it at once."
flowing stream, wept and said, "Ah, Heaven!" and the drops of blood
Have just heard that Barrymore is at the Hall. BASKERVILLE.
Michaelmas this Hugo, with five or six of his idle and
come to the market and see me sitting there, selling, how they will
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
therewith in two distraught" (where it is = drawn apart, its original
So also passed the fourth day, and when the shoemaker seated himself on
181. _Without circumstance._ Without further particulars. Cf. ii. 5. 36
My back o' t'other side,--O, my back, my back!
had been cutting out, he said to his wife, before going to bed, "What
Black Man.
and retaining a claim upon some proportion of his income. We
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth.                         70
But in the evening, after they had got home, Conrad went to the old
In all respects by me; nay, more, I doubt it not.--
armour forg'd for proof eterne," etc.
deliver her brothers.
cottage. They earned their bread by fishing, and always lived from hand
became a wealthy man.
"_Foot-bridge, break not,
several high tides the Thames has overflowed the hall, the courts of
"It can't be managed," cried he at last. "I will go away. After all I
37. _Unstuff'd._ "Not overcharged" (Schmidt); used by S. only here.
seemed to grow of its own accord.
minutes. What would you recommend?"
This scene is the crisis in the character; and henceforth we see Juliet
overlooked a stone-strewn slope. On its jagged face was
have a remarkable power of stimulating it. I confess, my dear
sign of my occupation.
course familiar with such tombs or _vaults_.
Holmes caught up the lamp and left no corner of the house
The playful manner in which Juliet receives the advances of Romeo (i. 5.
here = sight, or eyes.
painted an inscription to commemorate the event, and also stating the
life!" and went joyously about the world, and never troubled himself
157. _Apt unto._ Inclined to, ready for. Cf. iii. 1. 32 above.
and her father's farm.
"Quite so. But you had your suspicions?"
On Thursday next be married to this county.
any strange creature or heard the baying of a hound. The latter
admired the magnificent gold and silver tree, and said to the two
ancient English soldiers, using match-locks instead of flints, were
"You are prisoners. Put down the sack with the gold, or you will all be
He groaned and was silent for a few moments.
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
quite light," said she.
Miranda. There seems more passion in the one, and more dignity in the
_Enter_ FRIAR LAURENCE
Four legs grew on him, a large head and two thick ears; and he saw with
would not keep them, and presented them to the gardener as playthings
29. _Tried._ Proved; as in _J.C._ iv. 1. 28, _Ham._ i. 3. 62, etc.
hand so much, that they danced upon the tables and benches whether
intense earnestness that I could not doubt that some grave and
speaks through Friar Laurence when he warns them against haste in the
situation. As he had thoroughly learned his trade, it was not long
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
disappeared. And as she thought to herself, "In this no man can help
I'll play the housewife for this once.--What, ho!--
The milk of this animal is very nutritive, and, mixed with water, forms
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!                     60
"And cries aloud, 'Tarry, dear cousin Suffolk!
as perfect as if he were in Baker Street.
of my own."
In an assembly of phantasms such as I have painted, it may well be
Act III                                                   85
"Well, this is a wonderful Cat!" thought Hans, "but I am determined to
together, all three with one rope, and drove them along until he came
But if you were wand'ring, like poor Mungo Park,
been permanently attached to a certain moth which he had, in his
108. _Worser._ Cf. ii. 3. 29 above. S. uses it often, both as adjective
and the faithful Falada was to die. This came to the ears of the real
meals are the hard crusts of bread that are left over. The little dog
_Enter_ Nurse, _with cords_
hotel."
"That would please me very much," said the King.
Tybalt, that murtherer, which way ran he?
prose; in other words, his verse constantly encroaches upon the domain
"Seven hundred and forty thousand pounds."
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully;
valley, but did not recognize each other. Yet they rejoiced that they
hand her over to the Bridegroom. Each had a horse for the journey, but
went away. When the water in the kettle was boiling, the cook came into
to the _receiving_ of food or drink, though it is used of _what is
odd syllable; as in line 3 of the prologue, "From ancient grudge break
clothes know that an industrious disposition is worth more than good
[Illustration]
couldn't we be the King over all that land? Go to the Flounder, we will
throne of gold and diamonds, with a great crown of gold on her head,
58. _Dry sorrow drinks our blood._ An allusion to the old notion that
_Mercutio._ Come, sir, your passado.               [_They fight._
Dove, and for seven years long would have to fly about with the Doves.
by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his
So they ate and drank, and after that the Little Man said, "Since you
They prate, and make the matter nice,
There was once a man whose wife died, and a woman whose husband died;
me."
But how did it fare with the poor Fox? Long afterward, the King's Son
Was stay'd by accident and yesternight
them warmer: and there is a man throwing the snow off the house, that it
and C._ v. 10. 25, _Cymb._ iii. 4. 166, etc.
_Capulet._ As rich shall Romeo by his lady lie;
164. _Lent._ The 1st quarto has "sent," which some editors adopt. Clarke
Then she succeeded in making the King promise that it should be done,
of the docks is so large, that it covers more than twenty acres of
when she saw both of them sleeping and looking so pretty, with their
76. _A la stoccata._ Capell's emendation of the "Alla stucatho" or
residence at Baskerville Hall, and it is common talk how large
deceased, has given evidence to the same effect.
living and palpable truth....
Or shall we on without apology?
was afraid, and made his paws white for him. Yes! so are men!
on the side on which she had no eye.
their fate. He says: "To this end (good Reader) is this tragical matter
From every tree you can cut one for yourself."
She took them both by the hand, and led them into her little house.
moor in those dark hours when the powers of evil are
There was once a man who had three sons, and nothing else in the world
of pure gold. And when he entered, there sat his wife on a throne,
one could have known her.
She, however, was sorely troubled, and said, "Dear Father, what I
ashes, and a dim little oil-lamp was burning on the mantelpiece. For
down the corridor and examined the room in which Barrymore had
The birds now wished to discuss the matter, and on a fine May morning
43. _What lady is that_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
"But how?"
said, "Listen, dear Huntsman, to what I tell you. I will make you a
house of gloom which sooner or later we shall get to the bottom
immutable must be the purpose which had kept him in that
"That is the exact situation. Watson was asking for orders."
ii. 4. 11, "well-spoken" in _Rich. III._ i. 3. 348, etc. We still say
The father then said, "I knew well that you had rescued your brother,
picture, No. 31.
all about it. We pulled up halfway down the street and waited an
"in all post" in _Rich. III._ iii. 5. 73, and "all in post" in _R. of
his rash death, are all the effects of youth; whilst in Juliet love has
nature, others would have to pay the price if we held our hands.
With more of thine; this love that thou hast shown
tailor in the sight of all men.
for astonishment. The King's Son danced with her only, and if any one
beneath this, and cried:
his almoner upon several occasions, so the lady's statement bore
days, I will come and fetch it."
other is my wife, and I can answer for it that the sound could
similar sense in _W.T._ iv. 4. 411 and _Macb._ iv. 3. 220.
"And so could I--from which I gather that in all probability it
the highest order. For the rest, there is not a personage or a
On the third day, he received from Iron John a suit of black armor and
was an answer my husband took out some bread and meat to him.
dared not venture into the neighborhood of the mill-pond, she already
"Hedge-King."
trembling hand of the butler.
pocket, and let me have a draught of your wine. I am so hungry and
"To Grethel, Mother."
they shall not come back again." And he said to them, "You shall now
Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing--O,
"Precisely."
good friends were invited. At the head of the table sat the Bridegroom
Came more and more, and fought on part and part,
him line and scope," etc.
_Tybalt._ This, by his voice, should be a Montague.--
own rashness or imprudence in yielding to the impulses of passion
new light?"
could work the young man evil in London as easily as in
[Picture: The Brewer's Dray]
his whip.
"But it had not approached the body?"
taken an interest on account of the peculiar ferocity of the
Come, vial.--                                                     20
Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
there fishing, and unluckily the wind had twisted his beard with the
flanked it on each side so as to keep the wind from it and also
"Exactly. This chance of the picture has supplied us with one of
just give me something to eat."
Now when the huntsman came nearer he descried the maiden, and said to
knew neither of these things, but had been impressed by the death
in there was a curious scuffling noise from within. He was only a
himself a big, big fur cap out of it!
handkerchief together by the four corners, and carried it to the King,
"How do you explain it?"
about these things, and I'd be a better judge of a horse or a
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
bade him good-day, and said, "Do give me a piece of cake out of your
"I have no doubt, sir, that we shall succeed in establishing
two have taken their portion," and he picked up the other leaves, laid
"Look," said the wife, "is not that nice!"
have endured but an instant--and a light, half-subdued laughter floats
"No, I never did."
"She gave me a goat."
with the flock, there is a sorry horse's head on the wall, and she says
"the appearance of an upturned eye by moonlight."
stood for some little time here.  He then proceeded down
quiet. And he stood there and said:
I would the fool were married to her grave!
will make them little shirts, coats, vests, and trousers, and knit
the quirks of blazoning pens," etc.
dislikes me." So _like_ = please; as in _Ham._ v. 2. 276: "This likes me
_Benvolio._ Tell me in sadness who is that you love.
him. But they could not catch him, and when they thought that they
There was once upon a time, a very old woman, who lived with her flock
ACT IV
poem closely, without recollecting that he had made Capulet, in this
furnish you only with facts. I have had a long talk with Sir
forest, the one home to his Bride, the other to his father.
one branch of it on me may, in return for it, ask whatsoever he
cried:
_LONDON_
54. _The fairies' midwife._ Not midwife _to_ the fairies, but the fairy
cook replied, "There is heat enough there, just look yourself." Then
But the poor young ravens lay upon the ground flapping their wings, and
the kitchen-wench!"
altered their character from the time that he passed the
England before the time of S. He mentions it also in _L. L. L._ v. 2. 89
"Oh, yes, Lord King," he answered, "give me as much as my servant can
"Yes, there is a strip of grass about six feet broad on either
Then she seated herself on a stool, drew her foot out of the heavy
Then she ate of it, and was, like the others, immediately deprived of
folk-lore of his own time. Its derivation is uncertain.
So quick bright things come to confusion."
Then the King had the cook called before him. He scolded him, and asked
that 1595 may serve as an approximation to a central date, and cannot be
carts to grocers, fruiterers, and orange-merchants.  It is the business
That the former is the right word is evident from the ballad of _King
Holmes's voice sank as he answered:
good-humoured tolerance.... It is only when the young man's passion
could we do? We took him in and fed him and cared for him. Then
Therefore be patient, take no note of him.
eating canker dwells," etc.
After wandering about for a couple of days, he was lucky enough to find
145. _Unkind._ Usually accented on the first syllable before a noun, but
danced with queens, dallied with ladies, worn strange attires, seen
a mere courtier, 'bolde emong the bashfull maydes,' 'courteous of his
his death--and she found the ashes of a burned letter in the back
_Juliet._ Ay, those attires are best; but, gentle nurse,
the other like a weazel in the snow.
_Capulet._ Things have fallen out, sir, so unluckily
"No, Mr. Holmes, I have not. I've had no time, for it was only
_Lady Capulet._ What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
open air.
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
absolutely clean breast of all that you know. If I have to call
my daughter there, to wife."
of that licentious age, felt obliged to drop two of Mercutio's lines
74. _Wild-goose chase._ A kind of horse-race, resembling the flight of
just striking twelve, all was ready-cooked for him in the inn, and he
"to-morrow morning" (that is, Wednesday) instead of Thursday. Lady
Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
6. _That runaways' eyes may wink._ This is the great _crux_ of the play,
"Well, what happened when you did get there?"
one?"
All this I know, and to the marriage
42. _Be-rhyme._ Cf. _A.Y.L._ iii. 2. 186: "I was never so be-rhymed,"
Stapleton, and he brought the remains of his fortune, his schemes
time, when he got up, opened the locks, and came out. He said nothing
it rose two great stones, worn and sharpened at the upper end
London, so that we may expect great changes to begin here soon.
woman used the same treachery, but the King could not bring himself to
Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;
girl, for she was so beautiful, modest, sweet tempered, and wise, that
again, and let me go."
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
Snow-White, and bolt the door," and then they sat round the hearth, and
however withered she might be, she was yet heavier than the stoutest
Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
lovely nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine;
Next morning, she had the road pointed out to her, took leave, and went
115. _Dateless._ Limitless, eternal. Cf. _Sonn._ 30. 6: "death's
They now noticed a large bird hovering in the air, flying slowly round
_Romeo._ Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
would be very glad to have a hot plumcake, but he has not time to eat it;
Scarcely had they taken it out, when little Snow-White came to herself,
"Damp and raw."
way was so difficult to find, that he himself would not have found it
will give me a clear answer to my questions."
much propriety is so put into the good old Friar's mouth" (Clarke).
Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here,
each scene is as follows: Prologue (14); i. 1(244), 2(106), 3(106),
He answered, "I am no longer young, so give me the eldest."
plot. I told you in London, Watson, and I tell you now again,
coat, opened the door below, and crept outside. The moon shone
Much more than death; do not say banishment.
The boy returned with a telegram, which Holmes handed to me. It
critics, but their emendations do not better it. For _flattering_ in the
What, however, has become of the goat, who was to blame for the tailor
dead!"
room to the amazement of a doddering old manservant, who met us
and with half-shut eyes. When the first cock crowed, the Little Man
suitor.
Then drinke it of, and thou shalt feele throughout eche vayne and lim
Then the King's Daughter said that they were to fetch him immediately.
It receives letters from all parts of our own country, as well as from
A grave? O, no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth;
his greeting was not altogether a cordial one.
terrace [see cut on p. 85], communicating with the upper apartments of a
They alighted on the ground and blew at each other, and blew all the
_Juliet._ Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,          50
serious accidents; and here seems some poor creature going to
32.  The Mansion House,
will give you all my treasures! Look, the beautiful jewels lying there!
ashes, the maiden went through the back-door into the garden and cried,
"I'd prefer to walk, for this affair has flurried me rather."
"_Blow, blow, thou gentle Wind, I say,
"I am a runner," he replied, "and to stop myself running far too fast,
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
next morning, he broke off one head of the bad cabbages and another of
and will probably be very uninteresting to your severely
in a lovely meadow, where the sun was shining and thousands of flowers
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
and they took away the false Bride's clothes so that she could not get
her words.
Language: English
[Picture: The Royal Academy]
Bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud;
couragious; he will carrie no coales." He might have added from
others are as early as 1591." Dowden sums up the matter thus: "On the
8. _Operation._ Effect. Cf. _2 Hen. IV._ iv. 3. 104: "A good
of the geese.
it with the more satisfaction, I ceased my labours and sat down upon
_Juliet._ Yea, noise? then I'll be brief.--O happy dagger!
But the Prince slept so soundly that it only seemed to him as if the
[Footnote 8: Praed alludes to this affection of the "salad days" of
"Does not each walker know the warning sign,
When one of them heard the mocking he felt ashamed and would not go out
180. _Affection makes him false._ "The charge, though produced at
That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth,
To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
great lake before I found you, and yet you will not hear me!"
"Of the origin of the Hound of the Baskervilles there have been
be of help to me in my plans for the future if you will bring Sir
_Benvolio._ I do but keep the peace; put up thy sword,
raised one hand as if in protest. Next moment I saw them spring
Temple Bar is a noble gateway of stone, with a large arch in the centre
Adjoining Billingsgate stands the New Custom House, which is the office
Hans takes the knife, sticks it in his sleeve, and goes home.
Dr. Mortimer blinked through his glasses in mild astonishment.
each item, and just used multiple entries for that file in the index.
crept, with more of time, into the meditations of the thoughtful among
*       *       *       *       *
And all their colours fade,
money enough to buy leather for four pairs of shoes.
span the straw into gold.
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
What mean these masterless and gory swords
the reasons for my visit. I had not quite understood until that
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
64.  The General Post-office,
one whose initials are those. Wait a bit though," he added after
golden blood;" _Cymb._ ii. 2. 22:--
nothing more beautiful or precious. They did not know how the tree
himself talk, and will speak more in a minute than
town. How else could it be known so quickly that it was the
The children, full of pity, at once took tight hold of the Little Man,
Then dreams he of another benefice.
He agreed, and whilst they were talking he forgot himself, and sat down
hypotheses before falling back upon this one. I think we'll shut
still that it might have been that of a clear-cut classical
74. _Peruse._ Scan, examine. Cf. _Ham._ iv. 7. 137: "peruse the foils,"
rather too artful for a mind disturbed by the loss of a new lover." To
a letter.
_Mercutio._                      I am hurt.
dress was so pretty, and she had never had one like it.
word, or my plans crumble to the ground."
is his wife?"
MY DEAR HOLMES,
At midday, he reached his father, who received him with great joy.
_Peter._ Pretty too!--What say you, James Soundpost?
But the scullery-maid wept the whole night long, and cried, "I set you
_Enter_ CAPULET
which were advanced in price by the Dutch.  From traders they became
of the boys died. It never recovered from the blow, and much of
the vague outline hardened into a definite shape. It was a
5. _Orchard._ That is, garden; the only meaning in S.
eyes can look about you better than One-Eye."
my royal apparel. She has taken my place with my Bridegroom, and I have
at last!
it only here; but Tusser (_Husbandry_, 1573) has both _chink_ and
Sir Charles was a widower, and a man who may be said to
Be quiet, or--More light, more light!--For shame!
was much which we might surmise. There was no chance of finding
taught to read, work, and write, in the different charity-schools of
"And you say you can penetrate it?"
My dear-lov'd cousin, and my dearer lord?
work was as good as nothing, he fell into great sorrow and gave up all
"And yet it was not entirely a question of imagination," I
go hungry," and he ran up and drove the youth out of doors with the
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,                       10
I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave,--
He distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in
land, and the clouds flew, and toward evening all grew dark, and the
perform the last offices to our poor friend."
satisfy his curiosity without telling him too much, for there is
Professor Corson remarks (_Introduction to Shakespeare_, 1889),
Dragon with it, whereupon the Lion overcame it. Immediately both of
_Romeo._ What hast thou found?
He sings that the Dove must soon be dead,
recognized her sisters, One-Eye, and Three-Eyes, who had fallen into
up the mare and we were there under the ten minutes. Then he paid
21: "Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence!"
commonplace dramatic waiting-woman?--even with Portia's adroit Nerissa,
Fox_. Steevens quotes Dekker, _Satiromastix_, 1602: "tho' you were
Little Table."
carry, and I will not ask for your daughter."
After this, the second son went into the forest, and his mother gave
table. Across the middle of it a single sentence had been formed
ragged. He is lying in the goose-house."
may not soak through to the chamber ceiling when a thaw comes.  What a
will remember you---one good turn deserves another!"
Baskerville was held by Hugo of that name, nor can it be
an end. And when Two-Eyes looked out of the window of her own little
"We must ask about this right away." He rang the bell and asked
to the Hall. Good heavens, are you mad?"
heart leaped to see that beneath it there lay a sheet of paper
daughters were all beautiful, but the youngest was so beautiful that
Daniel, and some others.
contrived to take him to Gosport, and to present him to her husband, on
To beautify him, only lacks a cover;
But if your thought be chaste, and haue on vertue ground,
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
Her struggles were of no use; he drew her into the hall. But the string
"The reward is indeed great," thought the little tailor. "One would
of the barren waste, the chilling wind, and the darkling sky.
After the moon."
_Romeo._                         Ay me! sad hours seem long.
death to escape that guilt and wretchedness. No wonder that the Friar
At last the miller could hardly call the mill in which he lived his
it and that I might find myself involved in a scandal."
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company;                           90
our visitor's stick? Since we have been so unfortunate as to miss
Let down thy hair._"
to come, but on second thoughts it seemed to both of us that if I
11.  A Spanish bilbo, to lock the English by the legs.
castellated abbeys.  This was an extensive and magnificent structure,
unsatisfied?" it is only the half-involuntary utterance of the man's
or lets them go from his possession; hence, sells them. Cf. _L. L. L._ ii.
20. _Do much danger._ See on iii. 3. 118 above.
When she saw Joringel, she was angry, very angry, and scolded and spat
old man.
PAGE
Thames used to be.
"Nothing, sir." His agitation was so great that he could hardly
_Friar Laurence._ Stay, then; I 'll go alone.--Fear comes upon me;
men and women, with fish in wet baskets, &c. keep the pavement constantly
Tarleton had been before him. It was wise, therefore, in S. to find some
Rose-Red went and pushed back the bolt, thinking that it was a poor
far astray."
And what obscur'd in this fair volume lies
who had scattered his by the way. Then they fell asleep, and evening
maiden in her poor garments, but she shone out from them like a rose
of his own free will, had told us the secret."
"You would naturally think so and the thought has cost several
"Be comforted," said the Old Woman, "I will help you. Here is a Golden
here to see you."
He was carefully examining the foolscap, upon which the words
there and so obtain the fortune without ever coming to England at
At midnight they came bounding in, and wanted to get to work at once.
work and earn money for us. Go into the field and cut the corn, that we
over the dead bodies of their children, acknowledge the debt they owe to
uneven, rutted lanes, or, at best, to the rough gravel of a cross-country
No. 2704, and then we will drop into one of the Bond Street
It was a relief to me, after that unnatural restraint, when we at
excuse himself as he might, it was of no use. "You have not stood the
"Good-day, Little Red-Cap," said he.
and played on it a beautiful but sorrowful air. When he had finished,
very blood. Feel my hand!"
"The biggest thing for years," said Holmes. "We have two hours
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
to her parents as a keepsake, a loaf of bread against hunger, a little
notice which will in turn dispossess the fair French lady and the
"It is worth a mud bath," said he. "It is our friend Sir Henry's
that lonely walk across the ill-omened moor was weighing heavily
"I have in my pocket a manuscript," said Dr. James Mortimer.
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
"And no boat crosses either," answered Grethel, "but a white duck is
A long time ago, there were a King and Queen who said every day, "Ah,
_air_ instead of _earth_." It happens, however, that science and poetry
"We are to wait here?"
surprised if it is not clear enough before we go to bed this
_Benvolio._ Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in
339, etc.
"And then, our Romeus, with tender handes ywrong:
[Illustration]
_Marriage_ is a trisyllable in iv. 1. 11, and also in v. 3. 241; and the
our inference too far to say that the presentation was on the
Threats and even, I am sorry to say, blows refused to move her.
he may meet with many employers amongst the students of the law, and the
were closed in front of the bed the stage was supposed to represent the
WHEN Y HAVE SOVGHT
forth on stage"; and it is possible that this lost play may also have
the fields and shot it down. Now this was rather an uncertain affair.
am sure that I beg your pardon. At the same time, I was very much
to her castle, and begged for alms. She looked in their faces, and
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
"No, Wife," said the man, "I will not do that. How can I bear to leave
incompatible emotions. It was, at least, absolutely effective. At
"Two-Eyes, why are you weeping?"
v. 2. 694, _J.C._ iv. 3. 58, etc.
Chapter 7.
named Burke, who had been many years in that employment, as he was
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
the pond. With hasty steps, she paced round and round it, without
from the many tinted windows through which stream the rays from the
still, and all is silent save the voice of the clock.  The dreams are
had nothing left but leather for one pair of shoes. So in the evening,
to bring about the death of Mercutio, who exclaims: "Why the devil came
appreciate the archness of the dialogue with Romeo in this scene. They
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
begone; you are sped;" _T. of S._ v. 2. 185: "We three are married, but
And other moe commodities, which profite may and please;
The peasant did everything that he had been told to do. When he had
and wished him joy of his victory. "I am not the one who carried away
The wharf, the ship, the lady gay,
yard, with hens and ducks, and a little garden with flowers and fruit.
"_Flounder, Flounder in the sea,
castle disappeared, and they were back again in their old hut.
SWEET PORRIDGE                                                   299
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
terrified that she looked at every leaf of every tree, and did not
Then she held a white handkerchief to it, into which she let three
O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.                        120
you."
"_The good into the pot,
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
be an outrage, and yet my clear duty was never for an instant to
we could not desert him. That is the whole truth, as I am an
keep on his dirty old smock-frock, which he had brought with him, and
"And when she is undeceived?"
Sherlock Holmes whom I am addressing and not--"
Is death to any he that utters them.
more than the whole kingdom.
"I must do everything you bid me," said the Little Man.
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man.
My bus'ness it would ill become,
"There now!" said Holmes bitterly as he emerged panting and white
1 _Servingman._ You are looked for and called for, asked for and sought
he muttered impatiently as he watched its sluggish drift.
and sang all the time,
beauty can at once increase and modify passion" (Coleridge).
skull away from under the runner's head without hurting him. Then the
kitchen."
Snow-White and Rose-Red kept their mother's little cottage so neat,
and his scorn and indignation flame out in most eloquent verse.
Groaning continually, he climbed the mountain, and at length reached
thinking that he had got a false one, and went his way.
well and miss him more than I can tell. Do you think that I
of Shakespeare's Heroines_ (several eds.) will particularly interest
with her mother, and helped her with the housework, or read to her when
fact, if you had not gone today it is exceedingly probable that I
So she went home, but she spoke more than three words, and instantly
THE LITTLE HOUSE IN THE WOOD
of spring; with Romeo, his change of passion, his sudden marriage, and
it into his own hands, but I gave it into Mrs. Barrymore's hands,
The girl believed that she was in a dream, but three richly clad
[Illustration]
royal warrant, which his lordship having read and returned, he orders the
"I am investigating the circumstances which attended the death of
_Jul._ Romeo, from thine all brightness doth arise.
LITTLE BRIAR-ROSE
lo! she had a new one which was of the very finest linen.
"Then you are not of the brotherhood."
Luck had been against us again and again in this inquiry, but now
little beds side by side, and covered with snow-white counterpanes.
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
educated man who wished to pose as an uneducated one, and his
Sir Henry put his hand upon my shoulder with a pleasant smile.
side, if I say ay?
to have witnessed so intimate a scene without my friend's
enough." Nevertheless, the real reason was that he had caught sight of
found among the stone huts upon the hillside. With these two
read:--
she saw a little cottage and went into it to rest herself. Everything
travel out in the world."
several others, was executed.
slowly. At last the shining disc appeared in the heavens, then she went
And found no food, so went without,
And thinke not that I speake in sporte, or mynd to breake my vowe."
O, she is rich in beauty! only poor
all means of unhonest life, hasting to most unhappy death." The
The sun was already sinking when I reached the summit of the
For I will raise her statue in pure gold,
would indeed be a triumph for me if I could run him to earth
iii. 5. 8 below.
Blue Light, and I will appear before you at once." Thereupon he
sound of the birds. At last he heard it. He went on, and found the room
Everything went well for a week or a fortnight, and then the woman
drinking, before the woman's daughter, and so it continued.
So the good young fellow alighted and killed his horse with his
_millionaires_.  In painting and gemmary, Fortunato, like his countrymen,
_Juliet._ It is, it is; hie hence, be gone, away!
There was a thin, crisp, continuous patter from somewhere in the
struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where
of the Devon scenery.
* * * * *
"No; he lay about fifty yards from it."
Fletcher, _Humorous Lieutenant_, ii. 1: "They have no more burden than a
comb out and held it up.
162. _Weak._ Explained by Schmidt as "stupid." Clarke thinks that "she
euery company wel intertayned." His "audacity among Maydens" and his
She called out, "Good morning," but received no answer. So she went to
From off the battlements of yonder tower;
last, and Mlle. Carere has blurred my recollection of Baskerville
"What are you saying there?" asked he.
and greeting him said, "Give me a piece of your cake and a drink out of
again.
resolved not to speak, but to watch the wonderful goings on, and that
warrant you. I dare draw as soon as another man,                 150
"I have no engagement;--come."
He, however, was not lying in it, but a stranger.
battlements!"
enough to fight against without my putting more upon his track."
other by the hand when they went out together. When Snow-White said,
all love me, but the one of you who loves me best, shall fare the best.'
Were sparkling on the blade.
Stapleton's house, for example, with no one but himself to defend
understand all that had been done in such haste.  But anon
as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
and earthenware. You must sit in the market-place and sell the ware."
_Nurse._ Now, afore God, I am so vexed that every
35. _Form._ There is a play on the word, as in _L. L. L._ i. 1. 209:
The word is a quadrisyllable here.
my feet."
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
the girl who lived in the small house quite at the end of the village.
The Man on the Tor
said he when the long narrative was finished. "Of course, I've
and handsome, he awoke, sat up in bed, and said, "I am a King's Son,
The Old Woman was sitting in that lonely place at her spinning-wheel,
one in the world, and well deserves to be your wife. If you will make
'Twas in the pleasant month of June, their hands and faces clean,
which contrivance they who stood on the new form could not sit at ease
them. And no sooner had the shirts touched their bodies than they were
"If any possible doubt remained it is settled by the fact that
what use to me are the splendors and honors with which I am surrounded!
Then on the third day, he sent for all his huntsmen, and said, "Scour
but at last I found out, that, though I had nothing to do, I often had
fingers;" and he cites Beaumont and Fletcher, _Woman Hater_, iii. 1:--
7. _Sour company._ Cf. "sour woe" in iii. 2. 116 above, "sour
within the field of my inquiry, but what a man may do in the
details about the arrival of Henry Baskerville. Stapleton's first
willingly do something for it, but the cherries grow too high for me.
Holmes shrugged his shoulders. "I have hitherto confined my
Do you not see that I am out of breath?                           30
obvious?"
see if it also had been fulfilled. When he lifted up the pillow, the
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads.
descendant he was of that long line of high-blooded, fiery, and
The spoils of the Spanish Armada are still shown in the Tower.  There
prowling on the moor. My nerves tingled with the sense of
She was surprised to find the cottage-door standing open. And when she
effort to conceal his own writing suggests that that writing
sitting in a splendid room.
at the famous detective.
out of his sight for fear he should lose his influence over her.
"May all our difficulties vanish as easily!" said Sherlock
handful of ducats. With these he departed, but he cared nothing for the
But I resisted all his solicitations and succeeded in dissuading
tragic.
The huntsman took notice of it all, and went to the King and told him
When he reached the Golden Castle it was just as the Fox had said.
98. _Poor my lord._ Cf. "sweet my mother," iii. 5. 198 below. The
"Do you mean danger from this family fiend or do you mean danger
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,                           100
There's blood within the shoe!
"_Looking-Glass, Looking-Glass, on the wall,
was paid off and ordered to return to Coombe Tracey forthwith,
question, so that it is no wonder that he has found it a costly
and the Cudgel will leap forth among the people, and play such a dance
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
GREGORY, } servants to Capulet.
That he should hither come as this dire night,
"As you are engaged, I am on my way to Luchesi.  If any one has a
142. _Jack._ See on iii. 1. 12 above; and for _stay_ = wait for, on ii.
"Your net and box would have told me as much," said I, "for I
sunbeam forced its way.
King's Daughter.
have forgotten all about it in a game of play, the wicked boys!"
Then she sought for leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the Roe.
him that you regret that you cannot come."
elder wanted to destroy it, to see the little ants creeping about in
party, there were found none who put forth hand to seize him; so that,
a flash of wit; and the bringing-in of Paris (forgotten in the story
And holding his lantern, a figure so droll?
will kill one another by the look, like two cockatrices;" _Rich. III._
while to run any risk in order to establish one."
_Romeo._ Nay, good goose, bite not.
London?"
death of Sir Charles Baskerville."
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
perceived the Gold-Children and began to laugh, and jeer.
If thou a man, or woman wert, or els a brutish beast."
Barrymore had not been in London all the time. Suppose that it
for showing their skill, so they sat down and consulted together.
68. _Boy._ Often used contemptuously; as in _Much Ado._ v. 1. 83, 187,
that it does not always run loose upon the moor. Stapleton would
_Lady Capulet_: i. 1(1), 3(36), 5(1); iii. 1(11), 4(2), 5(37); iv. 2(3),
"Let two more summers wither in their pride
mammets." The word is also written _mawmet_, and is a contraction of
Mercy but murthers, pardoning those that kill.                   200
bid defiance to contagion.  The external world could take care of
"strange love" (that is, coy love).
She answered, "Yes, I am your dear wife," and at the same moment she
the public position of seeming to indorse a popular superstition.
He was conducted that evening, at bedtime, into the outer-chamber, and
NOTES [Illustration: THE NURSE AND PETER]
into my royal palace."
well say that it "drizzles rain" (_Much Ado_, iii. 3. 111). Elsewhere S.
"I have a good mind to go to London with you," said the baronet.
As the Old Woman spoke so kindly to her, the girl took heart, and
And when he came to the sea, it was quite dark-gray, and the water
Be sacrific'd some hour before his time
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
"You will tell him that you want to see the waste-paper of
"No, sir, this is Mr. Johnson, the coal-owner, a very active
began to weep, and said, "Ah, dear Huntsman, leave me my life! I will
Each Star Sat on Its Own Little Chair                             71
A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!               [_Exit._
[Picture: Smithfield Market]
When the apple was ready, she painted her face, and dressed herself as
giving the hounds a kerchief of the maid's, he swung them
to go to, but had to sleep by the fireside in the ashes. And as on that
surely had him, away he sprang through the bushes and was gone.
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
Leave me and do the thing I bid thee do.                        30
"Have you not seen a stag?"
i. 4. 54: "we fools of nature;" and cf. _M. for M._ iii. 1. 11, _Macb._
Juliet knows that she also will be when supposed to be dead. S. was of
them lunch will be almost ready."
* * * * *
What does Dr. James Mortimer, the man of science, ask of Sherlock
devour them.
LONDON.
_Nurse._                         Ay, ay, the Cords.
_Friar Laurence._ [_Aside_] I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.--
_Juliet._ Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
steady eye and the quiet assurance of his bearing which indicated
Jesters, and such like caterpillers of a Commonwelth"--among them being
During the war with Holland, rushes for bottoming chairs were very scarce
I say now when the forester comes home and sees that the children are
1. 42, _Cymb._ ii. 4. 56, etc.
room, clean his boots, and do all kinds of menial work. It was only a
water, she again cried to her waiting-maid, "Dismount, and give me some
When she heard that, all her blood rushed to her heart with fear, for
occasion for jealousy.
a hair more, or a hair less, in his beard than thou
What do you make of that?"
his back. Then she went quite silently out of the door again.
room, to her great delight it was standing in front of it. And so it
"Yes; I see no reason for further concealment. But one last word,
night, there came a sound to my ears, clear, resonant, and
"The facts of the case are simple.  Sir Charles Baskerville
That pierc'd the fearful hollow of thine ear;
When the feast was announced, the youth went out to the forest, and
_Romeo._ I stretch it out for that word 'broad,'
the creature diabolical was a flash of genius upon his part. The
me," she climbed up to the Sun, and said to him, "You shine into every
sat and wept and screamed with all the strength of her body, over the
I must needs wake you. Lady! lady! lady!--
I am not the true Bride._"
however, I have arrived at a point in my narrative where I am
For this time, all the rest depart away.--
climate. Young Baskerville stared eagerly out of the window and
_Romeo._ Out of her favour where I am in love.
Into the sack!_'"
"look like the innocent flower,
The evening sun shone upon the brilliant stones. They glittered and
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
gasping like one who had run till he was tired.
laboriously climbed the mountain. Everything was exactly as she
"Stuck it in my sleeve."
These words, because they are the simplest, are amongst the most
for three days in the week, a market for hay and straw; and the other
To make her come and know her keeper's call."
other, and no one need ask if they were happy.
bright upon the clearing, and there in the centre lay the
not give you your horse to take away with you. But in three days' time,
coals.
"With gum on to the paper. But I want to know why the word 'moor'
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
loudly.
away into the forest.
The bees began to buzz and hum amongst themselves, and the Queen-Bee
_Benvolio._ Of love?
"Thank you. These details are all of great interest. Have you met
LADY MONTAGUE, wife to Montague.
begged that she would give him back his Jorinda. But she said that he
credit, for I have kept my promise. If I hadn't sworn not to go
16.  The Jewel Office.
[Picture: The Scavenger]
black column of smoke.
see how it is with me, and you know just as much about the matter
"And yet it was one thing to laugh about it in London, and it is
"But how about the chance of his holding someone up before he
subjection in which she has been kept."
about, and in the meane tyme stopped their own eares for feare of the
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
attracted by her, and I am much mistaken if the feeling was not
But she could not yet conquer her proud heart, and said, "Although he
_Romeo._ Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
your husband."
it fast with both hands. She again gave him a handful of ducats. But he
only in _Per._ v. 3. 80.
yourself. Your family has lived with mine for over a hundred
But we will get up quickly, dress ourselves, and go away together."
the most foul-mouthed of Shakespeare's characters, the clowns and
horse, with his heavy hoofs, has been treading down my people without
is tight in, and I cannot get away. And you silly, sleek, milk-faced
SCENE IV.--2. _Pastry._ That is, the room where pastry was made. Cf.
false stroke, and the axe cut him in the arm. So he had to go home and
rage, and the heat of the day, he threw himself down. When he had
its name. Compare this scene with the _Temp._ iii. 1. I do not know a
twigs and the cup, and went to the King, but the Twelve Princesses
had fettered him to the granite.  In its surface were two iron staples,
lifted from my soul. That cold, incisive, ironical voice could
she began to be afraid.
"John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole,
_Romeo._ Out--
"Beware," he said to him, "if you do but touch the water, a hand will
_Id._ v. 3. 54: "These tidings," etc.
There was no light of any kind emanating from lamp or candle within the
does not even wait to hear his asseverations" (Mrs. Jameson).
Dunderhead answered, "I have only cinder-cake and sour beer. If that
in any other way. He wept once more with both eyes, and then held them
iv. 3. 99, etc. So _confusion_ often = destruction, ruin; as in iv. 5.
footsteps down the yew alley, I saw the spot at the moor-gate
"'Tis some visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door--
story took a great hold upon the imagination of Sir Charles, and
With some sweet consort; to their instruments
and there the old Witch had to drown.
MONTAGUE, }
outside, his grey eyes dancing with amusement as they fell upon
overtake him, so I set off at once in the direction of Merripit
as church-towers and mountains, and all with crests of white foam at
shall not open the door."
On the evening of the seventh day the Fox appeared and said, "You do
delegate;" _Cor._ ii. 3. 254: "wrought To be set high in place," etc.
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,                        210
a body, though they be not to be talked on, yet they
imagination.
_Mercutio._ Farewell, ancient lady; farewell, [_singing_]
125. _Indite._ Probably used in ridicule of the Nurse's _confidence_.
highest rooms of a house.  They first of all make a great reservoir, or
"Lift the latch," called out the Grandmother, "I am too weak, and
"Elsie, why do you weep?" asked the maid.
tired. The way, too, has not seemed long to us. We have been merry, and
mountains. In the plain before him, lay the great royal city with its
empty superstition. I had something to do with dogs when I was
With a coat of five capes that quite covers my back;
"Because I am now getting old, and my teeth are worn to stumps, and I
do wisely if without more ado you would kindly tell me plainly
fingers so that the blood ran down.
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;
polished marble with alabaster figures and golden ornaments. And
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
energy by our opponent, we have betrayed ourselves and lost our
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.                       [_Dies._
to our impression of the timid softness of Juliet and the harsh
But the pitch stuck fast to her, and could not be got off so long as
him go! 'tis an idle fellow, as poor and bare as a church-mouse. What
INTRODUCTION TO ROMEO AND JULIET
136. _If he be married_, etc. "Uttered to herself while the Nurse makes
there is no struggle between her filial and her conjugal duties, and
advice, and without looking round turned into the little inn, where he
1922  BY
_twelve_ years old now; but the Nurse makes her almost _fourteen_--as
taken this oath she would have been killed on the spot. But Falada saw
The Lion said, "Nothing can save you, unless you will promise to give
cried so, the Frog brought it out again for me. And because he insisted
43. _Past compare._ Cf. iii. 5. 236 below: "above compare," etc.
to eat."
134. _Lady, lady, lady._ From the old ballad of _Susanna_, also quoted
pie." He cites Cotgrave, who defines _pastisserie_ as "all kind of pies
"Not in the least."
So that I stoode in doute this howre (at the least)
or seven.  It seemed to have been constructed for no especial use
sense of _unnatural_ (cf. _kind_ and _kindly_ = natural) seems to cling
brows o'erwhelming his fair sight." See also _Hen. V._ iii. 1. 11. For
is _devotion_ in iv. 1. 41: "God shield I should disturb devotion!"
alone."
"Oh, oh!" cried they, "what a lovely child!" and they were so glad that
his son, and revealed to him, that he had got the false Bride who was
folk."
"_Stop, Little Pot, stop!_"
For a moment or two I sat breathless, hardly able to believe my
the city and surrounding country may be seen.
astonishment.
protect you, and I will look down on you from Heaven and be near you."
right away to Waterloo Station as hard as I could go. I whipped
"So hath he learnd her name, and knowth she is no geast.
_2 Watch._ Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.
point. He had taken this legend which I have read you exceedingly
some children; but cf. iii. 5. 163 below.
_Prince._ Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
The young man took compassion on the Old Woman. "My father is certainly
If I'd as much money as I could spend,
satisfaction which meant that he had a congenial task before him.
6.  The Scavenger.
To help me sort such needful ornaments
branches above him a screaming and twittering. He looked up and saw a
collection of water, on some neighbouring hill, from which pipes are
the particular district which concerns us. That is Baskerville
creatures in peace. I will not allow you to burn them."
It burneth in the Capels' monument.
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and swifter than his tongue,
up his two guineas, like a good one, and away he went into the
"But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
The King's Daughter began to cry, for she was afraid of the cold Frog,
At length, his wife had a child, and it was a daughter. The joy was
Sirrah, fetch drier logs;
Friar Laurence. Even the picture of the Nurse, with her vulgarity and
pockets whatever could be got in.
in the world were, only Snow-White was more quiet and gentle than
and at the tossing outline of the wind-swept trees. It is a wild
should have gone tomorrow."
"No, sir, but the food was gone when next I went that way."
"I don't know much about the tariff and things of that kind,"
his mind as to which points were essential and which immaterial.
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone," etc.
perhaps I should have said it before, but it was long after the
In great haste, he ran up-stairs, fetched his razor, lathered the
Central America, and died there in 1876 of yellow fever. Henry is
people, and despised all the suitors who were gathered there, was very
and plucking at his throat, there stood a foul thing, a
prostrate man face downward upon the ground, the head doubled
"_Who drinks of me, a wild Wolf be!
"Excuse the admiration of a connoisseur," said he as he waved his
under so bright a name) the daughter of a yeoman who held
"Did he give any explanation of his conduct?"
the same instant, a second wave came rushing up, and covered the man's
said, "He has just come home on his three-legged horse, and the others
one and put him on a chain I'll be ready to swear you are the
CONTENTS
our minds to have the truth out of you, so it will save you
Large bills to each town,
Transcribed from the 1828 Harvey and Darton edition by David Price, email
the same as his father's. He married Beryl Garcia, one of the
at my dress?"
about like snowflakes. So she lived happily with her, never an angry
sight. Then he dashed in wild pursuit amid the stream of the
a couple of leaves. Instantly the magic power showed itself, and she
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
are some who would have thought him mad.  His followers felt that he
that Perkins the groom should go over to sleep there, but
refer to _M. of V._ ii. 4. 5: "We have not spoke us yet of
gift of song. The shuttle leapt hither and thither, and everything
The dogs come and devour the bacon. When he gets home, he has the rope
_Lady Capulet._ What noise is here?
him, if we can do no more."
Thereupon she went into a secret, lonely room, where no one ever came,
and crouching behind it we gazed over it at the signal light. It
111. In the early eds. the stage-direction is "_They march about the
the moor sheep. We think, therefore, that he has gone, and the
certain. No, no, he's gone by this time! But we'll search the
The book showed that two names had been added after that of
would not turn aside to look at. Yet I believe I can help you." She
At last, however, it happened that he came to an island where the
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
it was I told him that my feelings towards his sister were such
200. _The dog's name._ _R_ was called "the dog's letter." Cf. Jonson,
thing, however: How came Selden, in the darkness, to know that
true."
ran to meet him. Then she threw one of the little shirts over each of
_Romeo._ Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!--
delicacy, holding us so lightly that it was only at some supreme
"Exactly."
It had struck me that it was possible that some love intrigue was
and though the doctor's evidence pointed to an almost
A damned saint, an honourable villain!
21. _Confessor._ For the accent on the first syllable, cf. _M. for M._
each other are thrown very much together. For this reason I saw a
was nowhere to be seen. But down beneath me in a cleft of the
"There are one or two indications, and yet the utmost pains have
Or violet, hiding underneath
youngest, which was the maiden, no beatings and three meals, for he
Then she gathered together the money into this, and was rich all the
for love? Now art thou sociable, now art thou
them regained their human shapes. But when the Princess, who had been
beams groaned as if they were being torn out of their joints. It seemed
In a note on the former passage, the poet says: "The Spaniards, with
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
Her beauty hangs upon the cheek of night
seriously before. But as to my uncle's death--well, it all seems
for his children.
From the first moment that he saw her he appeared to be strongly
have known the purpose for which the beast was used.
"_If my Mother only knew,
"I think they are the kitchen windows."
we all looked eagerly for them. But no slightest sign of them
years (see i. 5. 35 fol.), must be at least sixty. See also on v. 3. 207
be unable to help you. No, Sir Henry, you must take with you
land you have no need, here is something else for you."
arrived, one evening, at an inn which was filled with guests. They bade
which the upper floor and the roof floated like a strange ship
nest there is nothing to earn; and in the country, people like to go
I be compassionate, and take you in, if you will do what I wish."
Sir Henry had become once more the hale, hearty man that he had
Thus encouraged, our scientific friend drew his papers from his
men of his blood had held sway so long and left their mark so
Prelate_: "Silence his outrage in a jayl, away with him!"
no more wit than the rest o' the bench; and that lies in his
There was once a widow who had two daughters, one of whom was beautiful
And when she went in she knew little Snow-White. And she stood still
Nothing farther then he uttered; not a feather then he fluttered--
"_Shiver and quiver, Little Tree,
or my brother may miss me. I wanted to say to you how sorry I am
used by persons of good fashion in our author's time. In the _Household
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
103. _Ware._ See on i. 1. 121 above.
Toad cried:
true that Three-Eyes shut it, but only in her cunning, to pretend it
When she got into the wood she saw a small house out of which peeped
"For this alliance may so happy prove
taxed her husband with his intended crime, and a furious scene
The fruitefull hilles aboue, the pleasant vales belowe,
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
After this, let no one say that any one who is silly can never become a
The supra-orbital crest, the facial angle, the maxillary curve,
capital importance which I have handled there is one which cuts
coyness. Cf. _K. John_, iii. 4. 138:--
tasted. Grethel leant against the window and nibbled at the panes. Then
"The poor little soul,
which may be what S. wrote.
heap, she went on her way.
Just under the head was a broad silver band nearly an inch
3. 169: "Friends should associate friends in grief and woe."
with cries for help in the direction where help was least likely
_Enter_ Juliet
Thou wilt be taken.--Stay awhile!--Stand up;          [_Knocking._
_Eng. Gram._: "R is the dog's letter and hurreth in the sound." Farmer
where the duties are collected on goods exported or imported.  The
Sir Henry had to assure him that it was not so and pacify him by
go ill with you."
The fact is that our friend, the baronet, begins to display a
"This is scientifically true; poetically, it would seem better to read
Dwarf, who had emptied out his bag of precious stones in a clean spot,
As I said these words I busied myself among the pile of bones of which
part about me quivers. Scurvy knave!--Pray you,
in the evening, he called her aside, and asked why she did all these
Hermia; I will none," etc.
A happy life is love if God graunt from above
shillings and sixpence each.  Greenwich Hospital admits two thousand
"_Pretty little Hen,
When the Wolf had satisfied his appetite, he lay down again in the bed,
and went out into the world. When he had need of gold, he had only to
High Tor and Foulmire. Then fourteen miles away the great convict
them one piece of bread more. Then we will go to our work and leave
As soon as day dawned the two children let him out, and he trotted
again!"
do so we had to use Sir Henry, alone and apparently unprotected,
hotly than I should perhaps, considering that she was standing
in pursuit.  The moon shone clear above them, and they rode
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
none in more recent editions. See on i. 3. 51 above.
Africa, and many a charming evening we have spent together
"Ah, Wife," said the man, "why do you want to be King? I do not like to
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
67. _Promotion._ A quadrisyllable here.
Day 1. (Sunday) Act I. and Act II. sc. i. and ii.
with her. But she refused and shrank back with fear, for she saw that
as by nature; for this drivelling love is like a great
tree with the child, and a bird of prey had seen him in her arms, flown
the King saw that a fierce fire was burning under the iron room, and
to last. And, as a French critic remarks, "the very form of the language
"Allastucatho" of the early eds. _Stoccata_ is the Italian term for a
And one day, when she looked up in her grief, a woman was standing
stress of her fear she did that which might have daunted
anger from my mind. I felt also in my heart that he was right in
Than those who live in idleness;
"He saw him once or twice, but he is a deep one and gives nothing
seeing where he made for. As it is, by an indiscreet eagerness,
But be the serpent under it."
Waiting-Maid with the limping leg,
_Friar Laurence._ I'll give thee armour to keep off that word;
His name is Romeus (said shee) a Montegewe.
you for the insolence with which you mocked me."
daughter who was so serious that no one could make her laugh. So he had
_Juliet._ What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
brought it only to defend myself if attacked and not to shoot an
stood myself at that time. It may possibly recur to your memory
suddenly they started forward in a rigid, fixed stare, and his
fourth generation which is threatened in Holy Writ.  To
that the long enmity between them and their houses, which neither the
driving out his three sons? That I will tell you.
about the eyes. It is curious that these are the only specific allusions
wrong in giving _T.N._ ii. 5. 29 as another example of the phrase in
"No doubt," said I; "but how do you know that he is anywhere upon
narrow valley before them.
understand that under the new conditions this house will require
When they came to the next brook, the little sister heard this say:
could we examine the waste-paper baskets of the hotels around
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
ended in so tragic a manner. On the morning after the death of
will give you shall also content you."
gracious permission of Messrs. Harcourt, Brace and Company, American
all-seizing, or "taking the whole," as Schmidt explains it.
the statement of Barrymore that his master's footprints
There's not a man would cross it after sundown if he was paid for
said, "Alas, Wife, what are you saying?"
York. My friend was in excellent spirits over the success which
Though not to wealth or honours born,
But my true love is grown to such excess
sitting at her spinning-wheel, busily spinning. She looked up, and when
understand it to mean persons running about the streets at night. No one
been yours."
The duck came to them, and Haensel seated himself on her back, and
One-Eye slipped down, and Three-Eyes climbed up. Three-Eyes was not
into the garden, when she saw a bed which was planted with the most
"This very door," said Holmes.
bear the wind and bad weather.
16. _The longer liver take all._ A proverbial expression.
"I am not such a fool!" cried the Dwarf; "don't you see that the
2. 149: "His confessor, who fed him every minute," etc. See also iii. 3.
In the evening, Iron John came back, looked at the boy, and said, "What
"No," they replied, "only for one quarter of an hour each evening, can
your grave, middle-aged family practitioner vanishes into thin
deep that the bottom could not be seen. On this she began to cry, and
His father and mother came to the wedding, and were in great delight,
be able to get through the world very well."
was aware, it was already his own turn.
a faint smell of the scent known as white jessamine. There are
treasure-chamber, and held in great honor.
binds her fast. Then Hans goes to his mother.
I'll frown and be perverse and say thee nay,
disappeared in a few minutes among the scattered boulders, while
South Wind said, "I have seen the white Dove, it has flown to the Red
the dapper shape and jaunty walk of the naturalist. He stopped
have a better nerve for the ordeal which he will have to undergo
opens in the midst of the conversation, S. may have meant to imply that
the corn, asleep. Then Hans hastened home and brought a fowler's net
There is also, at the corner of the lane, against a public house called
casements.  The fourth was furnished and lighted with orange--the fifth
murderous host and the unconscious guest, still chatted over
were the crumbling remains of the cottages of the miners, driven
This is substantially Lady Martin's interpretation of the scene, and
misery.
[_Advances._
the children heard their mother saying at night to their father,
delicacy and his generosity."
"Devise extremes beyond extremity,
Hill criminal if he could once effect an entrance. Both Sir Henry
see with your own eyes and judge for yourself."
tell what misery he underwent in learning to move at the command of his
placed at some period as a support for the old worm-eaten baulk
beautiful ring, and suspicion of having stolen it fell upon this trusty
The beggar lame and blind.
single pearl was wanting, he who had looked for them would be turned to
matter?"
1586: "The tode being smitten of the spyder in fighte, and made to swell
Yours most truly,
expecting to see Dr. Mortimer, but to my surprise it was a
was that in the forest, beneath the moss, lay the Princess's pearls,
find more than two hundred pearls, and was changed to stone.
autobiography upon the occasion when he first met you, and I dare
78.  The Flower-pot Man.
Open the door."
through all the land. Nothing was hidden from him, and it seemed as if
"He must have been holding it as a signal," said I. "Let us see
"Took nothing; had something given me."
one at least had hit him. He did not pause, however, but bounded
CONTENTS
impatient gesture.
compares to unlicked whelps--"nought els but lumpes of fleshe withouten
defends it as preparing the way for the reconciliation of the Capulets
as his Bride, and rode away with her. They were, however, obliged to
"That we should have heard his screams--my God, those screams!--and
22. _Am I come near ye now?_ Do I touch you, or hit you, now? Cf. _1 Hen
during the night, at fixed hours; and when it calls for the last time,
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.              [_Exit._
the power of association. "The _volume_ of young Paris's face suggests
away with her.
_Capulet._ All things that we ordained festival                   80
before, and the light of the candle framed it in the darkness and
black creature, with its flaming jaws and blazing eyes, bounding
the hillsides. The light beneath him was reflected in his small,
"Then I understand that on your arrival in London yesterday you
with the shock the poisonous piece of apple, which little Snow-White
The long creeping cereus with prickles so keen;
polluted, and you can no longer remain with me."
105. _They._ S. makes _tidings_, like _news_ (cf. ii. 5. 22 with ii. 5.
of the hill and at the huge lake of fog which lay over the
to Dartmoor and awaited the arrival of the baronet."
in her marriage to King Thrushbeard. And the joy now began in earnest.
was to turn him off at once. The cook, however, had pity on him, and
"That is just where I want to go," answered the shoemaker. "In a small
and he was of a middle height, two or three inches shorter than
"I have not an idea."
that takes so much interest in my affairs?"
As they had been with him several years, he one day said to them, "I
once more the footsteps approached and a shadow fell across the
beautiful, much of the wanton, much of the _bizarre_, something of the
_Nurse._ Ay, a thousand times.--[_Exit Romeo_] Peter!
something back with her for each of you."
shall do me a very trifling piece of work. Behind my house, there is an
"Do you not remember," continued the Old Woman, "that it is three years
have spoken homely prose, and that humour would have mingled with the
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of Night
Lina."
was close at hand.
their miserable hours of captivity; especially the amiable and learned,
With tears, the woman related what had befallen her.
the beast round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that
"I said nothing but:
When some time had passed in this manner, the Queen began to speak in
How did he die?"
weighed her to the ground, but she always brought it safely home.
obliged to carry a lighted _match_ hanging at their belts, very near to
and my sister is as devoted to Nature as I am. All this, Dr.
this also. Best of all would it be if you could come down to us.
I cannot give you a more detailed account of this curious case. I
substantially composed, though it is tolerably certain that some parts
most uncommon type. There could not have been a greater contrast
great fear was on them, but they still followed over the
How long is 't now since last yourself and I
"A fortnight and odd days"--sixteen or seventeen days we may suppose,
Mortimer, that you were followed this morning from my house?"
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love
what I say, it will be the worse for you."
among the stones we stared intently at the silver-tipped bank in
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
158. _New._ Often used by S. in this adverbial way = just, lately. Cf.
dishonourable, vile submission," show how reluctant the lover of Juliet
was missing. The Ant-King had come in the night with thousands and
What's here? a cup, clos'd in my true love's hand?
happened, that when one of them thought the other had encroached, by
should not double the reckoning, and said the apprentice must give two
"Why not?" answered he, "I have brought two heads with me, and will
_F.Q._ ii. 2. 2: "for porcion of thy livelyhed"), etc. Cf. _Godhead_,
See also _R. of L._ 221, _A.W._ iii. 7. 18, _Cymb._ iii. 4. 137, etc.
The Editor,
for each of you."
practitioner carrying it. The thick-iron ferrule is worn down, so
stones, and slipped away again under the rock into his hole.
I'll make you quiet. What!--Cheerly, my hearts!                   90
or a derivative of it may have been applied to the leathern sheath of a
sleep first? I will sleep first." Then she lay down among the corn and
turned out.
_Lady Capulet._ Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!
defined. The moon shone on it, and it looked like a great
favours this explanation. _Abraham-man_, originally applied to a
At first he withstood her prayer, but when she wept more and more, and
my _roquelaire_.
97. _Surcease._ Cf. _R. of L._ 1766: "If they surcease to be that should
"Watson," said the baronet, "it was the cry of a hound."
_Enter_ TYBALT _and others_
"You're mighty close about this affair, Mr. Holmes. What's the
you may neither speak nor laugh, and in that time you must sew together
When that was settled and made secure, the man buckled the other leg on
nothing that she would not have given the child!
receive him."
_C. of E._ iv. 1. 68: "Consider how it stands upon my credit;" _Rich._
wild, and menacing. The baronet caught my sleeve and his face
every one was astonished at her beauty.
will see what will happen."
live." And their mother would add, "What one has, she must share with
30. _Canker._ Canker-worm. Cf. _V. and A._ 656: "The canker that eats up
"No, no," said I. "Only a humble commoner, but his friend. My
apartments for the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, who direct the
_The Rosemarie Branch:_--
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
his return from a long voyage at sea, as his own son.  The whole history
It is by knowing and thinking about this, that clever men have contrived
YET STILL THS IS
_Enter_ LADY CAPULET _and_ Nurse
"And I went to look at the folk in the park," said Baskerville.
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
what it is that he is after. I wonder what your friend Holmes
"The more reason why you should avoid a public investigation."
task. She went down into the garden and strewed with her own hands ten
253. _Hour._ A dissyllable; as in iii. 1. 198 above.
They began to walk again, but they always got deeper into the forest.
And, I warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
Hans had been at home for a long time, but Elsie did not come. Then
But the seventh when he looked at his bed saw little Snow-White, who
Then the man said, "Wife, we cannot go on any longer eating and
uses parenthetically the ordinary form of apology for speaking so
[Picture: The Dustman]
15.  The Wild Beasts in the Tower.
_Nurse._ Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
Or primroses modest and early.
THE IRON STOVE
watchmen are still on duty. Since we can hardly send Juliet to bed
_Nurse._ See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
_Juliet._ No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
_Mercutio._ Consort! what, dost thou make us
curled up here?"
there at the present moment something moving upon that hillside?"
cut off.
fields and woods. Eating the Snake had given him power to understand
But of him selfe he went into an Hermitage,
_Nurse._ Is it good den?
69. _Let._ Hindrance; as in _R. of L._ 330, 646, and _Hen. V._ v. 2. 65.
I have no doubt that it led to his tragic end."
could proceed no farther in that direction, but must turn back to
reward and became a famous man.
she asked. Many even gave her the money and left the pots with her as
whirring and beating of wings. It looked as if a black cloud was rising
youngest was silent.
"I've been moping in the house all day since Watson went off in
soon forgot the poor Frog, who was forced to go back into his fountain
passing my room. I rose, opened my door, and peeped out. A long
It was to your account of a West-Country legend that this tale owes its
were musicians, there was Beauty, there was wine.  All these and
away!" This seems to me more probable.
"No Lady fayre or fowle was in Verona towne:
sorrow and sighing exhaust the blood. Cf. _M.N.D._ iii. 2. 97, _Ham._
When day dawned, a voice in the stove said, "It seems to me it is day
"It seems to show that someone knows more than we do about what
14. _Extremities._ That is, extreme difficulties or dangers.
We stood with bitter hearts on either side of the mangled body,
hand, and followed the pebbles which shone like newly-coined silver
ONE-EYE, TWO-EYES, AND THREE-EYES                                314
disappointed you as an agent--that you do not regret the
we find him always associating with the young men of the Montague
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
and yet we cannot fly! What can we do, but lie here and starve?"
this fabric may be attributed.  In 1092, William Rufus laid the
to speak with him in private.
_Paris_: i. 2(4); iii. 4(4); iv. 1(23), 5(6); v. 3(32). Whole no. 69.
feel that the money should go with the title and estate. That was
that he limped and ran slowly. Then a hunter crept after him to the
acquaintance, but also the Wise Women, in order that they might be kind
Then said Bird-Found, "Neither now, nor ever."
"No, your boy had been observed, and that gave me a guide where
She was terrified at that, and cried out, "What is that? who is pulling
use to laugh at nothing;" _T.N._ ii. 5. 104: "with which she uses to
So he went into the room, and when he came to the bed, he saw the Wolf
his existence is at the mercy of his enemy, Capulet" (Staunton). Cf.
However, she was not in earnest. She never rested day or night, and she
_Nurse._ Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
slept the whole night. When day dawned he awoke, but knew not where he
himself.
occurred to her, and the glowing description of a noble and wealthy
109. _Gleek._ Scoff. Cf. 1 _Hen. VI._ iii. 2. 123: "Now where's the
"One moment!" said I. "You have, no doubt, described the sequence
"Thrown there by Stapleton in his flight."
even the sight of her husband's body, reeking from the scaffold, did not
seeking the Golden Apple, we flew over the sea to the end of the world,
threatened her, and said with angry eyes, "And if you do not attend to
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.--                     30
"Then I was right."
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
rough-looking fellow entered who was evidently the man himself.
When the tailor heard that, he was shocked, and saw clearly that he
Doe make this towne to be preferde aboue the rest
wants, she says:
_Gregory._ The quarrel is between our masters and
When he came to the village where the maiden dwelt, he inquired, as he
_1 Musician._ What a pestilent knave is this same!               141
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
When the water had dispersed and they both touched dry land again, they
girl set out on her way with a bowl of soup. But the field-sparrows,
followed me himself, but he had set an agent--the boy,
and went home with it. The grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine
pause in the action, and at this point such an interlude would probably
Such love is like that of the song in _The Merchant of Venice_:--
scene, clamorous in his grief. In _Romeus and Juliet_, Juliet's mother
4. Any unaccented syllable, occurring in an even place immediately
lights by day," which is very plausible.
"There are only two women in the house, Sir Henry," he answered.
know what to say. In the meantime prosperity again returned to the
that I was his personal friend as well as his medical attendant.
looked in.
when she came in, and looked for him, she did not see him, but a white
"Yes," said little Snow-White, "with all my heart," and she stayed with
collar, and Holmes breathed a prayer of gratitude when we saw
gabled houses peeped out from amid the thick green foliage, but
The girls were acquainted with each other. They went walking together,
And threaten'd me with death, going in the vault,
the mind. What would Dryden have made of it?" (Coleridge).
fortune," said he.
thundered and lightened. And the sea came in with black waves as high
The Head Answered, "Alas! Young Queen How Ill You Fare"          244
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
idea that you had found my occasional retreat, still less that
"Yes, I have thought a good deal of it in the course of the day."
203):--
_Benvolio._ Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
But now a poor captive confined in his den.
courage, and self-surrender when her heart is possessed by a noble love,
earth, not far from her mother's house.
never seen the Hall, for he lived in a little cottage on the
goat, and left the few bits of broken bread which had been handed to
him away, and brought him to live with them. And they had two Kingdoms,
_Romeo._ When the devout religion of mine eye                     90
_The Goose-Girl_
expeditious manner.
with its fiery eyes."
hare would eat a cabbage-leaf out of their hands, the roe grazed by
the singleness!
her eyes fall, and went on spinning. I do not know whether, just at
And see and hear as much of it,
"No."
admirable screen."
traces of tears upon her face. Some deep sorrow gnaws ever at her
find out my name, then you shall keep your child."
To wreak the love I bore my cousin                               100
life."
86, 87. Mr. Fleay improves the metre by a slight transposition, which
go there and see what they are about."
gasp of one who is torn by an uncontrollable sorrow. I sat up in
there beside the path. You threw it down, no doubt, at that
saw a Fox sitting at the edge of a wood, so he cocked his gun and took
it."
I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'--
makes such a slip, treats both of these examples as literal rather than
Look to the bak'd meats, good Angelica;
He had a mind to put everything down again, but the Old Woman would
thoroughly revised on the same general plan as its predecessors in the
The fiddler answered, "That is my house and yours, where we shall live
which was mentioned in the narrative. There is a house indicated
The hateful mansion.                        [_Drawing his sword._
And then in post he came from Mantua
tripods.  But to the chamber which lies most westwardly of the seven,
When she entered, they all bade her welcome, and she was forced to
could find my way about."
Lights were brought, and then he saw on her neck the gold chain which
Thou hast amaz'd me; by my holy order,
SCENE I. _Friar Laurence's Cell_
generalize a grove of them--so it is nearly as much so in old age. The
_Weak_ seems the better word as opposed to the following _power_
"And when?"
simplicity, silliness.
and I crept quietly back to where my companions were waiting to
water-plug; but as its principal use is to supply water to the engines
millet. The girl will see them better, and can't lose her way."
_Friar Laurence._ Who is it?
3(58), 4(28), 5(150); v. 1(86), 2(30), 3(310). Whole number in the play,
opportunity to repeat the penance by replying, 'Then have my lips the
Princess in her dazzling array.
"Where are you going, then, dear Bear?" asked Snow-White.
with a curious lisping accent. I have myself seen this old man
"Oh, yes," said the doctor, "that is soon managed."
But the Nix made her sweet voice heard, called him by his name, and
12.  A thumb-screw, an instrument of torture.
Hardly, however, had she opened it, and looked therein, than she fell
evening.
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
The latter quote _Temp._ i. 2. 269 ("This blue-eyed hag") in proof that
to be cautious as he followed. We came at length to the foot of the
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.                        10
into the stable, caressed the goat and said, "Come, my dear little
from the cold and the bad weather."
To shrive them selfe the olde, the yong, the great and small:
soldiers were marching before the door blowing trumpets, and beating
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd
_Nurse._ O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
clandestine marriage and disregard for the authority or approval of
sudden gust of wind, blown into the river, in presence of his son, a
it. Today we mean to communicate to the Princetown people where
of the eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his
all to pieces.  Well, drive away, coachey, that I may see all the fine
After long, long years, again a King's Son came to that country. He
And yet the course of true love does not run quite as smoothly as
royal splendor. On the walls, golden flowers grew up on a ground of
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
There is no monument more worthy of the sight,
throughout. There can be no doubt that Stapleton exercised an
Man standing and went on.
false step yonder means death to man or beast. Only yesterday I
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
26: "For shame, thou hilding;" _A.W._ iii. 6. 4: "If your lordship find
26. _Blazon it._ Set it forth. Cf. _Oth._ ii. 1. 63: "One that excels
which during the seven years had everywhere become too small for him.
themselves with bread.
iii. 4. 303 and _Ham._ iv. 7. 162. _Carries it away_ = carries the day.
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
"I entirely believe you, madam," said Sherlock Holmes. "The
One day, in winter, when everything was frozen as hard as a stone, and
Then Dunderhead said, "Father, do let me go and cut wood."
Who in this land is the fairest of all?_"
away.
my opinion for a terrier and not broad enough for a mastiff. It
the moment was also near at hand, and now, with deliberate and stately
Each friar has a companion assigned him by the superior when he asks
of hours afterwards we were at the station of Coombe Tracey and
"I tied it to a rope, brought it home, dogs took it."
up against the time-stained portrait on the wall.
Mrs. Lyons had resumed her seat. Her hands were grasping the arms
_Twelfth Night_ is similar to Romeo's. At the beginning of the play he
am crowing at full pitch while I can."
"I did not say that I had read all the letter."
love affair were to be added to our other difficulties. My
regard to the former, and "windows" evidently has the same meaning in
reassured me.  I placed my hand upon the solid fabric of the catacombs,
notice, for there will certainly be a change of weather."
they were making their feathers smooth with their bills, they were
*       *       *       *       *
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
in ruins, the town and the villages were, so far as could be seen,
The apprentice thanked him, put the sack on his back, and when any one
have a good heart, and are willing to divide what you have, I will
Who ever would have thought it?--Romeo!
suddenly aware that I was not the only witness of their
Now, when he thought over this by night in his bed, and tossed about in
"They had gone a mile or two when they passed one of the
neighbours upon the moor. I accepted Stapleton's invitation, and
Mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.          [_Knocking._
but I could imagine that they were some unwarlike and harried
apprehension of _anticipated_ frenzy, does, indeed, amid her dim and
love--while by an evil destiny it brings death to themselves, involves
[Picture: Greenwich and Chelsea Hospitals, and Pensioners]
"Why should we not arrest him at once?"
By daybreak, the King was there, and when he saw the gold, he was
"Perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that particular
gentlewoman is young, and, therefore, if you should              160
"Oh," said the father, "she's sharp enough."
reverentia_), used as an apology for saying what might be deemed
"A prety babe (quod she) it was when it was yong:
happiness to women," etc.
And yokes her silver doves."
the trusty Fox.
Even the relations, who had come thither to wish them joy, did not
He gave the bottle back to the tailor, and said, "I spoke civilly to
An agitated German waiter had appeared upon the scene.
She thought, "Ah, whither have I come!" and peeped in through the
come into the other wing. We were just in time to catch a glimpse
See also _Id._ ii. 6. 40 fol. For the contemptuous use of _ambling_, see
gazing after us.
heart; 5. Dead is my poor heart, so for a kinsman vext."
dead. Steevens perversely calls it one of "those miserable conceits with
After a year had passed the King took to himself another wife. She
Falada answered:
many mad fantastical dreames." How the root could be got without danger
Mrs. Jameson remarks on this passage: "This highly figurative and
with Sir Henry in his study the upshot of their conversation was
_2 Musician._ I say 'silver sound,' because musicians
When you into a Frog were changed!_"
Who sits within this tower?
this place," etc.
"I should be a fool, indeed," he thought, "if I were to go into the
to me that the pallid features of the butler turned a shade paler
_Juliet._ How now! who calls?
O cousin, cousin!
_Romeo._ Good heart, at what?
Not a leaf more I'll touch,
decided within twenty-four hours. But the manuscript is short and
don't fill it."
Now (tho' between friends I am forced to confess
_Enter_ JULIET
peaceably quit the palace." But the cat, whose thirst had become still
saucy person.
within. The unknown might be lurking there, or he might be
recognized that I am myself an unpractical man and because I am
but the baronet looked pale and distrait. Perhaps the thought of
was shining. It could only come from the lonely abode of the
air. The lamp beat upon his face, and so intent was it and so
"Will you help me?" she said, as he remained standing by her. "You have
Apples lay about the room.
must be some grounds for the fears which he had expressed. I was
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
familiarity with the usages of the Roman Catholic Church. It is the
The turn-cock, as he is called, has just opened a fire-plug, or rather
in his wild flight to escape from it. But now we have to prove
30.  Guildhall.
The "Red Death" had long devastated the country.  No pestilence had
58. _Romeo, I come_, etc. The 1st quarto has here the stage-direction,
We would as willingly give cure as know.
By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
that night which ended in the death of the unfortunate convict
away from them.
Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore--
_Friar Laurence._ Too familiar
which widened slowly from the crushed skull of the victim. And it
swallow it herself, for the Old Woman would have it so. Thenceforward
ran:
shoulders. And it happened, that they stumbled over a tree-stump, and
PAGE
"I would suggest carrying this poor fellow to my house, but it
He felt in his pocket, but his gold was just at an end. "Wait an
And she as much in love, her means much less
would get her lover back again. Then she gave her three things, which
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
"Is this true, Barrymore?"
comfortably.
gas lights, from so many of our shops, and from the lamps in the streets?
There has been of late years, a show of fat cattle annually at
Then he said, "Let me have it as a gift, for I cannot live without
This desire increased every day, and as she knew that she could not get
Henry, has anything else of interest happened to you since you
And Hymene into a Dyrge; alas! it seemeth straunge:
_Juliet._ And joy comes well in such a needy time.
"Yes, sir."
_Mew_ originally meant to moult, or shed the feathers; and as hawks were
_Juliet._ I have.
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
73, etc. The word in this sense is usually spelt _naught_ in the early
The plays of Shakespeare (with the exception of rhymed passages, and of
The baronet has been in communication with the architect who
draught, and is contemplating the fine shape of the gentle cow.
at_, cf. _A.Y.L._ iii. 5. 131, _K. John_, i. 1. 228, etc. We find
"Mew! mew!"
Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.                    170
you to the Hall."
When she is out, she says to the goat:
blighted. This struck me more than all the antiquities, more even than
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
clothes. But the maiden knew him at once and fell upon his neck. The
An you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in the streets,
dough over them for me."
born when she herself was "much upon these years" of her daughter (who
I give her my little house as payment for her services."
the youngest a spoonful of honey.
_Enter_ MONTAGUE _and_ LADY MONTAGUE
_Friar Laurence._ God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
_Apothecary._ My poverty, but not my will, consents.
Ma! Ma!_"
reward you for it."
"_Oh, take me out! Take me out!
you get your other boot?"
her hunger.
Fetch the broom and sweep the chamber."
with _now seeming sweet_ (= "what now seems sweet") as its object; but
life's crowd; how the calamities of existence fall heavily upon the
"To hear and absolutely to determine
very retiring man, and he preferred to do good by stealth."
_L. L. L._ i. 1. 169:--
THE STAR-MONEY                                                    39
Amalarius, Bishop of Treves (_De Eccles. Off._ iv. 40), specifies Lent
passion."
tried to get through the thorny hedge, but they had remained sticking
That he ne had the powre his daughter to bewepe,
and is seldom to be found in this world. I must and will have it!" She
_Nurse._ An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take
"What a pity! He might throw some light on that which is so dark
fiend dog but must needs describe him with hell-fire shooting
which I had seen the solitary watcher, and from its craggy summit
desperate measures at once. Like most clever criminals, he may be
The bee met him, and as she saw that he was ill at ease, she said,
1. 46, _Rich. III._ i. 2. 23, etc.
astonished.
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
he said less than he might, and that he would not express his
danced in the air. He took a needle out of his pocket, and as he could
off the other, and laid it beside him. Then the master said, "You have
the thickest; there we will light a fire for them, and give each of
weep, the sun being set;" but this only means that the earth is wet with
She was too good for me; but, as I said,                          20
who had taken away her three children, and hidden them.
it backward and forward above his head so fast that not a drop fell
seek out the prettiest and rarest."
was he waiting for him in the yew alley rather than in his own
about it that they also fell ill, and soon after died. And because they
has its foundations, not in the factitious necessity of custom, but in
always escaped her.
these stories? Is it possible that I am really in danger from so
Perchance she cannot meet him; that's not so.
Alike bewitched by the charm of looks,
of the play, the mere girl he makes her. She must be too young to have
your nine lives; that I mean to make bold withal,                 80
year.
179, etc.
Not half so big as a round little worm
Something had evidently aroused his suspicions. It may have been
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
yourself with your beloved, on to his back, and the bird will carry you
Ah, word ill urg'd to one that is so ill!                        200
the two lovers." As Paynter puts it, "The Montesches and Capellets
But whoever ate a piece of it must surely die.
_Peter._ No money, on my faith, but the gleek; I will give you the
She, however, gave him a glass of wine in which she had poured a
hope before the day is past to have the upper hand at last."
you deny that you kept the appointment."
the water, and lies at the bottom. We will soon bring it up again for
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb;
weather, and my spindle, shuttle, and needle, with which you can earn
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
Every year it became higher, and at last grew close up round the castle
38. _Mark._ Appoint, elect. Cf. _T.A._ i. 1. 125: "To this your son is
confirmation. He had hoped that his wife might lure Sir Charles
olive slopes, sprinkled with giant boulders. Now and then we
longer, they lay down beneath a tree and fell asleep.
_Romeo._ Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
what he said and that it was really best for our purpose that I
a benevolent or a malevolent agency which is in touch with us, I
Hill, and is the highest column in the world.  It was erected in
gayety, pathos and absurdity, sorrow and jesting, elbow each other in
birth, she scorned him, and required him first to perform another
this sentence."
disposition, so that this persecution does not arise from him. I
town-musician."
hurried away to its lair in the Grimpen Mire, and a mystery was
_Prince._ Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
Alas, alas!--Help, help! my lady's dead!--                        10
family. That his advances should be rejected so brusquely without
years in the darkness, who suffered hunger and thirst, and has lived
closed his eyes and was about to sleep, the two crows flew down from
the bed and drew back the curtains. There lay her Grandmother with her
45. _Mean._ Often used by S. in the singular, though oftener in the
"There is no object in our following them," said Holmes. "The
After a while, as the maid did not come back, and those upstairs were
Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.                [_Exit._
which Holmes did the same. An instant afterwards he gave a little
dominions were half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand
between them and that they had met by appointment. They were
Lepidoptera? I think it is the most complete one in the
2. 221: "let me stay the growth of his beard," etc. On _circumstance_,
together, and every one declared that a feather like this was worth
That murther'd my love's cousin,--with which grief,             50
_Romeo._ I pray thee, chide not; she whom I love now
at all, if a Wise Woman had not given him a ball of yarn with wonderful
founders, for the purpose of recommending the best means to be used for
The girl told all that had happened to her. As soon as the mother heard
Warner, _Albion's England_: "his countermand should have contraried so,"
"He mentioned his name."
youthful fire had a much larger share than his philosophy or his
And now all would have been lost if by good luck the huntsman had not
119. _Shall have the chinks._ This seems much like modern slang. S. uses
things laugh! Ugh! how odious you are!"
Besides, why should we not find the right way? Bread for two days, and
He came over to call upon Baskerville on that first day, and the
a _Times_ leader is entirely distinctive, and these words could
followed me. But I am likewise the Knight who helped you win your
I. "He would follow Barrymore and see what he did."
the master were at home or not. The people complained bitterly of the
however, that Brooke speaks of having seen "the same argument lately set
better still, have driven to the Northumberland Hotel and waited
but I fear that even he has not quite grasped the significance of
Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae.--
257. _Some minute._ We should now say "some minutes," which is Hanmer's
our scene."
their azure and their glow. Yet this must not lead us to forget that the
But all at once the door opened, and in came a Little Man, and said,
[_Retires._
wreath of flowers."
IV
[Picture: The Horse Armory]
but the Witch, who gazed at him with wicked and venomous looks.
At last they arrived in a large city and went to the royal palace.
But now, the poor child was all alone in the great forest, and so
(Steevens).
To be consorted with the humorous night;
told him all that I had seen. He was less surprised than I had
not, Beryl?"
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
And thinks that _he_ has most occasion to cry;
And no man-of-war, Sir, I thank you, for me.
no good my telling you things, for you seem to know as much as I
danger he incurs if detected by her kinsmen. Cf. ii. 2. 64 fol. above.
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
in pursuit of it. To my dismay the creature flew straight for the
same scene) is somewhat indefinite, but must be within a year or two of
beautiful that he did not believe that any more beautiful than she
[Picture: Pie Corner]
The Little Man took the ring, again began to turn the wheel, and, by
"Then how is it that you did not go?"
What rejoicing there was! They embraced their dear mother, and jumped
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
straining our ears, but nothing came.
curious to know what view he may take."
honour of their death;" but in the introduction he expresses a very
To skate on the frozen canal in the park!
And if we meet we shall not scape a brawl;
but the little table did not bestir itself, and remained just as bare
yourself that it was the cry of a hound? I am not a child. You
"Yes," answered he, "that indeed you can. Give me your daughter to
went thither, accompanied by the Lions.
able--but wait a moment, Dr. Watson. Do my eyes deceive me, or is
for a horse and some money for traveling, as he had a mind to see the
iv. 3. 133: "One of our covent and his confessor;" and _Hen. VIII._ i.
has been very closely shadowed by someone since he has been in
_Page._ O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.    [_Exit._
bread."
Then the Bride begged as hard as she could, and said, "He is my
has been found. _Pilch_ or _pilche_ meant a leathern coat, and the word
eye for it."
Then the needle leapt out of her fingers, and flew everywhere about
"I quoted the postscript. The letter had, as I said, been burned
Brooke:--
is to fight with her kinsman. He does his best to restrain his friend
stood a wonderful, magnificent tree with leaves of silver, and fruit
She lost her senses. But when she awoke and came to herself, she was
confidant, though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in
whether they cannot find a place for a kitchen-maid. They have promised
4. _Nightly._ It is said that the nightingale, if undisturbed, sits and
moor-gate, and that he appeared from thence onward to have
The owl was placed as sentinel in front of it, and was not to let the
sat shivering with his face buried in his hands.
Romeo, when he has overheard her soliloquy in the balcony] is couched.
cunning as he is, the fellow shall be in my power before another
known him; and begged for shelter. "I am so tired," said he, "that I
1. 164, _Ham._ iii. 3. 60, etc.
spring, sufficiently high, they force the water to a proper height by
a considerable staff."
_Romeo._ Well, what was yours?
eds., but _nought_ when = nothing. _Dissemblers_ is here a
_Thou's._ Cf. _Lear_, iv. 6. 246. The early eds. have "thou 'se"; most
He looked at her, and it seemed as if a veil fell from his eyes, and
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
Of what ev'ry horse feels, when drawing a cart.
connection between the hound and the man's death. We never saw
Then the man said, "I did not know that the bird belonged to you. I
lines. Of course, they belong to the first draft of the play.
in the poet's eye was doubtless the large and massy projecting balcony
EDITED, WITH NOTES
"Now, you will observe that he could not have been on the _staff_
_Mercutio._ Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.                       10
I was much astounded by this programme, though I remembered that
"So you would think, sir, unless it was the other man who took
"But, Grandmother, what big eyes you have!" she said.
weather. Look you, with this Cudgel have I got back the Wishing-Table
filled her pinafore full.
that you are so much heavier for me to draw up, than the young King's
and Thisbe."
On the third day, the boy sat by the well, and did not stir his finger,
that he has this down on. What has he against me? I never hurt
_Delightes for Ladies_, 1608: "_To make a marchpane_.--Take two poundes
"Good-bye, Hans."
at this day." We smile at this when we recollect some of the words that
"Behave well, Hans."
will be safe until morning."
did not lie, and that this fellow was indeed a Baskerville. He
told him what he had seen in the night. The King called his council
Now we have a distant view of a man-of-war (which is a great fighting
PUBLISHING
that had happened.
egress to the sudden impulses of despair or of frenzy from within.  The
truth has he ever told me. And why--why? I imagined that all was
23. _Weak._ So all the early eds. except 1st quarto, which has "small."
"No," said the man; "what should I wish for?"
To season love that of it doth not taste!
"Oh, yes," said she, "I promise you all you wish, if you will but bring
Chapter 8.
since then hardly a day has passed that we have not seen
As Phaethon would whip you to the west
many thousands of birds, which fly about in the woods and fields, had
the parents is visited upon their innocent offspring. This is the burden
[Illustration]
But He that hath the steerage of my course
And now the King's Son had it carried away by his servants on their
name of God on the stage. Here the folio has "Come."
Bills in every street,
"Then on Saturday, unless you hear to the contrary, we shall meet
There was no help for it, the old man had to betake him to his needle
remains for us to find out by wire the identity of the cabman,
Dr. James Mortimer, the friend and medical attendant of the
upon his shoulder, toiling slowly up the hill. When he reached
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
Fill it with water full vp to the very brim,
and the King's Daughter one too, and they began to run at the same
55. _No bigger_, etc. That is, no bigger than the figures cut in such an
39. _The game_, etc. An old proverbial saying advises to give over when
"Daughter dear ... Isis bless thee and thy Bride," etc.
was standing under it, instead of gold, a big kettleful of pitch was
Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
_J.C._ iii. 1. 136, v. 1. 110, etc.
Obedience set aside, vnto my parentes dewe:
heat was caused by the food. But as it became still greater, and they
"Did he say so?"
(see on ii. 2. 117) and _contract_, etc.
might not see it.
visible about two hundred yards ahead of us in the direction of
woorke." But after writing the verse prologue it occurred to him--or
[Picture: The London Docks]
So the Knight lifted Two-Eyes on his horse, and took her home with
"I don't know, sir. I hope to heaven that he has gone, for he has
do it. Just you go to him."
exquisite, the more into my remembrance and contemplation" (Heath); or
in contact with Juliet, nor will Romeo himself care to meet him. He is
Cf. _Ham._ iv. 5. 78:--
There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
soldier's room, and I had to wait upon him like a servant, sweep his
did I give you?
difficulty would be in prolonging the time to the next morning without
the King, and announced himself as a suitor. He was as well received as
_Juliet._ Good even to my ghostly confessor.
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
"I met her deity
of the sun, and Two-Eyes sang constantly:
beautiful plants, for a garden within doors; and to those who have a
from going to the home of my own people, and you may take that to
leave to go out; and thus they are a check upon each other (Steevens).
horsewhip, and gave her such cuts with it that she ran away with mighty
they lived.
165, etc.
69.  The British Museum
South African gold.
But when the doors were opened, all six were standing there, alive
supposed to be a paramour visiting her by night. She knows also the
about the man's age and professional career." From my small
every nerve on the alert, but there came no other sound save the
jumped on to the bundle and seated herself on the top of it. And
think that she herself was again the first and most beautiful of all.
the Northumberland Hotel.
to where we lay, and went on up the long slope behind us. As he
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams
and today they have sneaked one of the black. Well, have you got
So as the fog-bank flowed onward we fell back before it until we
was something indescribably guilty and furtive in his whole
143. _Bent._ Inclination; as in _J.C._ ii. 1. 210: "I can give his
his voice that he, the man of iron, was shaken to the soul.
289. _Pothecary._ Generally printed "'pothecary" in the modern eds., but
that we find Romeo wandering in the grove of sycamore, "with tears
Obey, and go with me, for thou must die.
Here are the beetle-brows shall blush for me.
TALES
"Because it _is_ the place of danger. That is Sir Henry's nature.
and see where Elsie is."
According to an entry in the books of the Stationers' Company for 1560,
Or else beshrew them both.
4. _From forth._ Cf. _M.W._ iv. 4. 53: "Let them from forth a sawpit
That I reviv'd and was an emperor.
falsely accused." And she told him of the treachery of the old woman
But fortunately it was almost evening, and the Seven Dwarfs came home.
farthest sky-line, out of which jutted the fantastic shapes of
"To see Sir Henry. Ah, here he is!"
Coleridge remarks here: "How admirable is the old man's impetuosity, at
40. _Envious._ Malignant; as in i. 1. 148 and iii. 1. 171 above.
tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter?
trying to earn a small alms. When the King heard him, he said, "Let him
conditions, to the City of London, in the last year of his reign, for the
the bravest or most active man, for by the aid of the
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head,
now, poor fellow, when it is too late, he sorely laments his situation,
I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,                   120
and it lay in deep stillness and solitude. Nothing was seen but
blessing to have a good house and a comfortable fire-side, when the
v. 3. 197 below. For _Ay me!_ see on ii. 1. 10.
This is the place where the public business of the corporation of London
of the window. But the besiegers did not leave off, until the whole
home, and so ventured one day in a frolic to go on the water with a party
"Colour of his eyes?"
farm of some grazier in the old prosperous days, but now put into
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
this fiendish man, hiding in a burrow like a wild beast, his
(1871; encyclopaedic and exhaustive); Dowden's _Shakspere: His Mind and
been yours."
When they came to the church-door, she said once more:
county," said Dr. Mortimer. "A glance at our friend here reveals
at this instant. And Stapleton, where is he? He shall answer for
of _Virgil_, 1632: "Whose hollow wound vented much black gore-bloud."
up in that sweet entreaty for pardon with which it closes."
are indelibly fixed in every detail upon my memory. I proceed,
"That is not so difficult," said the Old Woman, "you must not drink the
believe that careful study of the passage will prove the supposed
seal--the redness and the horror of blood.  There were sharp pains, and
Or never after look me in the face.
forcing our way through gorse bushes, panting up hills and
the King's Son, she let her veil fall over her face, that he might not
separated, his arms folded, his head bowed, as if he were
Mrs. Lyons flushed with anger again. "Really, sir, this is a very
early days of my mission you must acknowledge that I am making up
for, having lost a leg, he wanders with some of his companions, and joins
one, lived there in riot and revel, and forgot the bird and his father,
silence. Finally Stapleton turned upon his heel and beckoned in a
SCENE IV. _A Street_
3.  Pie Corner,
at his watch--"in exactly one hour and a quarter."
to the adjectives, I said, if I remember right, amiable,
those desirous of having a memorial of their prince; and by others, from
Waking, or sleeping, still my care hath been
25. _And that._ And if. This use of _that_ (in place of a preceding
track, following hard upon the footsteps of our friend. So
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
him who clamoured.  I re-echoed--I aided--I surpassed them in volume
England with them.  It is only two years since he took up his
"Where is it, Watson?"
is he still lurking out yonder?"
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise.                     190
"Could you ring him up?--thank you! And I should be glad to have
hall!"
And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
will not carry what I, an old woman, have so often dragged along! You
client we succeeded in completing our case and driving Stapleton
"Oh, come with me," said the master. "If we six are together, we can
condition, and if you do not fulfill that, you will never get out of
eventually fallen over here and broken his neck."
SCENE V. _A Hall in Capulet's House_
Who is going to buy gallows'-flesh? and the desire to sit at the edge
And slay thy lady too that lives in thee,
and the parapet is plain, with buttresses rising from the piers,
When we see a rope, with a wisp of straw tied to it, across the street,
But with revengeing lust as yet thy hart be set on fyre,
earth-reverting body (according to his mind) is to be buried in some
A faint moaning and rustling came from within. Holmes struck the
_Mercutio._ Could you not take some occasion without
and the cock, and the beautiful brindled cow."
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
again, he brought out a large Flounder.
me!" She shot her arms out from her sleeves, and we saw with
full purse.
_Capulet._ For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
echo of their steps.  And, anon, there strikes the ebony clock which
Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.--
never miss it." She prepared a drink, and when it was ready, poured
wherever he came the cock was already known. In the towns, he saw him
"Why then, did you not write to Sir Charles and explain this?"
bent upon counteracting his schemes? The only conceivable motive
1.  The imperial crown of Great Britain.
frightened that they let fall what they had in their hands.
turned by the plough and the broad tangle of the woodlands. The
Now at home, everything was once more in its former magnificence. The
_Shake-speare_"), but this does not occur in some copies of the edition.
darkness. I sprang forward therefore, and Sir Henry did the same.
"That I may smoke one more pipe on my way."
"Why should I go back?" I asked.
heard an old man talking about the thorn-hedge, and that a castle was
two, and has received many tributes from credulous and sentimental
"Stapleton was with me when I heard it last. He said that it
year by year more and more. But ill-luck comes like a thief in the
"Can it be Ash-Maiden?" and they had to bring him an axe and a pickaxe
subsequent plays. Examples in this play are the prologue, the chorus at
home.
filled with the threads. No sooner was the wheel standing on the shore
hair.
20. _Cross._ Thwart, interfere with. Cf. iv. 5. 91 above.
away from his gossip, but now I began to wish to hear more of it.
"It may cause him to be more cautious, or it may drive him to
and his thirst grew ever greater, he said, "I must go into the cellar
his stomach knocked against each other and rattled. Then cried he:
I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;
It was as quiet there as in a church. No wind stirred, no brook
he carried a green butterfly-net in one of his hands.
_Engrossing._ Malone says that the word "seems here to be used in its
5. 62: "a Greek invocation, to call fools into a circle." See also _Hen._
[Picture: The Monument]
The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
there was not one bad stitch in them, just as if they were meant for a
Toss'd among the waters green.
his chance.
Cat and the Cock settled themselves in the branches; but the Cock flew
colouring, she reminds us of some of the marvellous Dutch paintings,
"_Bricklebrit!_"
whimpering in a cluster at the head of a deep dip or goyal,
By gazing fed, and fancy dies
This is one of the most beautiful of the new improvements at the west end
So he cut off her head; and as she was being dressed for the spit, the
It was now three mornings since they had left their father's house.
England have been crowned, ever since the days of Pope Nicholas the
"The recent sudden death of Sir Charles Baskerville, whose name
"I forget your arms."
You are a saucy boy.--Is 't so, indeed?--
"It is he, then, who is our enemy--it is he who dogged us in
too, from his grandfather, that many Kings' Sons had come, and had
all clean for us outside by the back-door."
75. _In spite._ In scornful defiance. Cf. 3 _Hen. VI._ i. 3. 158,
They have made worms' meat of me. I have it,                     110
established a most important fact by these questions, Watson," he
which have a cloak in their claws, and are plucking at it. Take your
waltzers were quieted; and there was an uneasy cessation of all things
the death of Tybalt, stamps her with one very characteristic trait of
America, and inquiries are being instituted with a view to
"At this moment, none," answered the soldier; "you may return home.
_Capulet._ Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon.
27. _Encamp them._ For the reflexive use, cf. _Hen. V._ iii. 6. 180:
_Romeo._ What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
brother's child!"
Then they went farther, and came to a lake, on which a great number
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
Robert Mylne, Esq. the architect, and finished in about eight years, at
dragged at my brown coat, so that it is all torn and full of holes. You
Daughter, it is not becoming for you to be alone with a young
descended. Outside, beyond the low, white fence, a wagonette with
But the little Kids knew that it was the Wolf, by his rough voice. "We
new-maried wife, the day after the mariage."
Take up those cords.--Poor ropes, you are beguil'd,
newspaper; but that you should name which, and add that it came
will eat him."
_aitch_, and the plural was a dissyllable; as in _Temp._ i. 2. 370, _T.
_Benvolio._ O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,                   180
that there was a chandelier in it.
syllables (2d, 4th, 6th, 8th, and 10th) accented, the odd syllables
who lay there, sprang up and bit his leg.
"_Alas, Falada, hanging there!_"
"There is no connection."
wall thus exposed by the displacing of the bones, we perceived a still
all the other windows it is only a distant glimpse which can be
any of it, she quite pined away, and looked pale and miserable.
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
beauty superior to theirs and therefore the more extraordinary.
inhabitant below,' whether he lies beneath a beautiful pile of white
moor, though each, had he been alone, would have been right
there, and he heard how she cried:
his chair and lighting a cigarette. "I am bound to say that in
of public money, he changed his name to Vandeleur and fled to
At the same moment the convict screamed out a curse at us and
100. _Cousin._ Some editors add "Tybalt" (from 2d folio) to fill out the
And when the old folk had fallen asleep, he got up, put on his little
beautiful rampion (rapunzel), and it looked so fresh and green that she
dare-devil roysterers, but it was that, standing over Hugo,
Two-Eyes lived a long time in happiness. One day, two poor women came
"Give me another mouthful of that brandy and I shall be ready for
Lettsom says: "It is preposterous to speak of the parts of a chariot
the fourth side the bones had been thrown down, and lay promiscuously
She met my difficulty with the utmost readiness.
and the people begged the King to buy the wonderful beast for the
Of a poor pothecary, and therewithal
sitting on a tree, who was shutting one nostril, and blowing out of the
"That I will tell you," answered the Fox; "first take the beautiful
should always have done so with him."
But when the girl went out with her basket on her arm, the wood-pigeons
heap of wood lay in front of it.
Where the sun can never shine,
inquiry is that a man of science shrinks from placing himself in
the shuttle fall in, you must fetch it out again."
My heart sank for Barrymore. It was a serious thing to be in the
_Romeo._ Pink for flower.
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;                     10
terreble shriek and cry of this Mandrack. In whych cry it doth not only
_Juliet._                        You kiss by the book.           112
Hardly had the needle put in the last stitch, than the maiden saw
impossible to make a case against the real murderer. His only
torrent of words. "I did write it. Why should I deny it? I have
With thy black mantle, till strange love grown bold
three Little Men peeped out again, but she did not greet them. Without
Then the Fox stretched out his tail, the King's Son seated himself upon
finally I carefully examined the body, which had not been touched
plump mouthful--she will be better to eat than the old woman. I must
the description is in perfect keeping with the character. See the
did not see him again."
This mode of riding is now but seldom seen, though formerly it was
down on both sides, and covered her white body.
"Do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave?"
rode on.
was seeking him over hill and dale until she found him. At that, the
when the moon was behind it?
Child, who are you, and what are you doing here?"
{29}  The summer of 1794 had been very dry, and a pitch-kettle, happening
Regent Street, but it would puzzle him to do so upon the lonely
"What is the next move?"
And yours close fighting ere I did approach.
steaded much;" _M. of V._ i. 3. 7: "May you stead me?" etc.
Barrymore to be delivered into his own hand. If absent, please
One evening, as they were thus sitting comfortably together, some one
And, if thou dar'st, I'll give thee remedy.
they came. One-Eye and Three-Eyes answered that they had another
of L._ 597, _Sonn._ 36. 10, _L. L. L._ iv. 3. 204), etc. See also iii. 3.
knight's gross allusions are so obscure that they would not be
91. _Bandying._ Contending. Cf. 1 _Hen. VI._ iv. 1. 190: "This factious
"_Thou, O Queen, art the fairest of all!_"
mouth. The first thing that comes across me and is even half eatable,
was suddenly shut off. The servants had left the kitchen. There
two. But neither of the travelers knew which way was the short one.
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
"Come out," said he, "and please be careful with the revolver."
recollections, aided by the diary which I kept at the time. A few
not found them. They said no, they had found nothing but a church, and
been shot for a Roe by the huntsmen. Now when she heard that they were
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
and lived together happily ever afterward.
daughter as your reward."
and thus become King."
quarto is the first that bears the name of the author ("Written by W.
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
_Capulet._ No, not a whit. What! I have watch' ere now
It was not long before a King's Son presented himself, and offered to
Rie Cramer_
I think it best you married with the county.
at the time. See on 23 above.
When that was done the King said, "Now it is not proper for you, a
silence and solitude of her chamber," as Mrs. Jameson reminds us; or, we
name Maid Maleen, who was my betrothed Bride. If I could believe it
fish.
I could only stare at her in stupid surprise. Her eyes blazed at
instantly suggested a way by which the baronet could be done to
"Late at night, when the King's Daughter is in bed, bring her here in
"Art thou quoth he a man? thy shape saith, so thou art:
"No," said he. "There are a few gipsies and labouring folk for
rubbed his hands with the joy of action. "The nets are all in
no one come in when we are not with you."
mountains and looked for copper and gold, in the evenings they came
Shipley's Yard, near Waterloo Station."
court-cupboord (without box or drawer), onely to set plate on."
Silver and gold throw over me!_"
to the foxes and the ravens."
this house my slumbers have been lighter than ever. Last night,
Witch, and carry her before the judge."
were standing deeply absorbed in their conversation, when I was
feeble rays upon the figure within.
this might have been endured, if not approved, by the mad revellers
"Husband," said she, "I will be Pope. Go immediately. I must be Pope
_Sampson._ If you do, sir, I am for you; I serve as
I think, sobbing in the night?"
When they had walked on for a short while they found a huntsman who was
"Open my door," but the boy would not.
will fly."
"What do you think of that, Watson?" cried Holmes in high glee,
fact, marry, and had one child, this fellow, whose real name is
untasted. She used to eat up everything that was given her. She must
"We now come to that portion of his life which has proved to be
large, scrawling figures: "1742."
"Good woman," said he to her, "can you not show me the way through the
As is the night before some festival
meaning is, "It is their way to redden at any surprise."
an orchestra waves his baton."
above her, which the masons had left there by mistake.
"My dear fellow," said he, "Holmes, with all his wisdom, did not
When it was dark he ran to the cottage, knocked, and said, "My little
All perjur'd, all dissemblers, all forsworn;"
And when she went to the feast in the dress, no one knew how to speak
elegant building.  The Company was originally formed by Queen Elizabeth,
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
meaning seems to be: _which one_ (referring to _her of most merit_),
King. "It is not right; it is not right," thought he. He did not wish
for a long time in the moonlight until he was only a small speck
of the huntsman should become heavy. He said to the maiden, "We will
"Is that serious?"
heir, had been living unannounced under another name so close to
and _Lucrece_, Weever adds:--
any harm to the old gentleman, who had been my kindest friend."
I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!--
This doth not so, for she divideth us.                            30
109. _Nothing hurt withal._ Nowise harmed by it. _Who_ = which; as
Luxuries for you to gain.
curtains.
The King's Daughter was now a kitchen-maid, and had to be at the
and gagged the unsuspecting old man, they concealed the crown and other
On the third day, things went just the same. She could not get his hat
An hour but married, Tybalt murthered,
"Be easy," answered the Nix, "I will make you richer and happier than
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
to herself. She does not break into upbraidings; it is no moment for
Pleasant new Ballad of Two Lovers_: "Hey hoe! my heart is full of woe"
coughing. Through the haze I had a vague vision of Holmes in his
minister of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman,
or what to do, and before I had made up my mind he picked up his
our man. But that is no use to us for the moment."
"Only when it is quite convenient to you, sir."
come to a castle, where in the stable stands the horse. The grooms will
be brought before him; and amongst them came the youth in his ragged
"Anything good?" he asked.
[_Exeunt all but Montague, Lady Montague, and Benvolio._
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
into the water.
40.  Bartholomew's Hospital,
_Capulet._ But Montague is bound as well as I,
according to habit, she was seized by the desire to taste, and she ate
The woman liked the idea, and lighted a candle, and then they hid
They often ran about the forest alone and gathered red berries. Beasts
which Red-Cap had brought, and grew strong again.
what the richest and greatest come to at last.  Rich and poor, high and
customers are as much obliged to him for letting them have his things, as
soon find a way to help us."
Grethel says to Hans, "I will go with you."
_Paris._ Give me thy torch, boy; hence, and stand aloof;
will be a wife to make it complete. Between ourselves there are
"I am a King's Son," he said, "and I was bewitched by that wicked
clouds. In its cold light I saw beyond the trees a broken fringe
Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage!
of A._ i. 1. 257, etc.
from his mouth and eyes. Holmes would not listen to such fancies,
101. _My heart is full of woe._ The burden of the first stanza of _A
spent the night quietly.
all round me. Life has become like that great Grimpen Mire, with
The spindle, however, danced continually onward, and just as the thread
sitting together quietly by a brook and taking their rest. And, whilst
"Well, perhaps it was. Did you ever hear a bittern booming?"
Then he perceived an Old Woman with a head which nodded all the time,
it was all in vain, for in every street poor children were sitting,
how it is with us. If they are fresh, then we are in health. If they
"_Cock-a-doodle-doo!
_Nurse_: i. 3(61), 5(15); ii. 2(114), 6(43), 7(7); iii. 2(116), 5(105);
front of my windows, and prevents my seeing beyond it. And you must
The poem may have suggested Capulet's speech; but S. is not at fault in
stare past me with an expression of the most dreadful horror. I
"Surely that must be the same Johnson whom I used to know," said
This may flies do, when I from this must fly;
To follow this fair corse unto her grave.
Neither father nor mother seems to have any marked affection for Juliet,
When the second daughter was about to be married, and she was again
"Not yet midnight," answered the maiden, "but already past eleven
which belongs to him by right."
with pure gold.
And slay thy lady too that lives in thee,
"For Jove himself sits in the azure skies,
Most detestable Death, by thee beguil'd,
give me if I spin the straw into gold for you?"
The owl alone remained standing by the mouse-hole, gazing steadfastly
Then she said, "To-morrow morning before sunrise these must be picked
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow,
spring; but it ends with a long deep sigh like the last breeze of the
"I must go into the forest and guard my treasures from the wicked
on the supreme day, which he regarded as the end of all his
Betimes next morning, the forester got up and went out hunting, and
To strike him dead I hold it not a sin.
_Enter_ BENVOLIO _and_ ROMEO
a sight she saw there! The house-door stood wide open. The table,
[Footnote 3: In the original sense of reconciliation; as in _Rich. III_.
"Good-bye, Hans."
her there was much churchly splendor. And on both sides of her was a
Where lo! two lamps burnt out in darkness lies."
had lifted. Meanwhile we left Lestrade in possession of the house
I entice you? do I speak you fair?" _M. of V._ iv. 1. 275: "Say how I
To this same place, to this same monument.
I was hurt under your arm.
he got his food and so trace it to him?"
contented_; as in _M.W._ iii. 3. 177, _Lear_, iii, 4. 115, etc.
nothing--nothing! It is my mind and soul that he has tortured and
a beast of burden, and not be able to look about. I shall trust in God,
Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
Then he burst into a hearty laugh.
"Not I," I replied.
gifts, as it seemed to me, for Nature to throw before the
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
He answered, "Two miles from here are seven windmills. Look, I am
only bought the pair last night in the Strand, and I have never
cellar and see where Elsie and the girl are."
crying, and he heard the reason, and that Elsie's child was the cause,
decorate splendid desserts, and were demolished by shooting or throwing
but at what time is uncertain.  In this place the kings and queens of
"How can such a silly beast give wise advice?" thought the King's Son,
"If to a foule discourse thou hast pretence,
the miller's daughter taken into another room full of straw, which was
heavy block of building from which a porch projected. The whole
In the morning, after he had said his prayers, and was just going to
[_Exeunt Montague and Lady._
that my friend Watson is in the neighbourhood. You will see it
as it were in a dream, for the strange Princess has bewitched me so
prayer and went to sleep.
her parents with little or no regard for her own feelings, much as she
In the anguish of his heart the King consented, and the old woman led
command me. If I had any indication of the nature of your
Cupid, though in fact he was at least as old as father Abraham." Cf.
old black boot in the air. "Meyers, Toronto," was printed on the
pass a jest upon, to make a person ridiculous." It is impossible to say
In evening skies."
And through the gates the candel light within the tombe they spye."
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
"changelings" (see _M.N.D._ ii. 1. 23, etc.) in their place.
There stays a husband to make you a wife.                         70
"What did Grethel give you?"
hand and took the poisonous half. But hardly had she a bit of it in her
[_Exeunt other Watchmen._
service. In the village lived a beautiful and true-hearted maiden, who
Juliet's supposed death. "Now, for the first time," as Dowden says, "he
have everything now that you can wish for. But there is never an end to
London?"
trust that there is nothing of consequence which I have
will read it to you."
he is afraid it will cost him his life if he is caught. He steals
Grethel pushed out the whole of one round window-pane, sat down, and
One-Eye, sleepest thou?_"
daughter!" and was about to kill him.
intrigue, or to enjoy the greater freedom of conversation. Their entry
My masters, I'm dirty, nor can I be clean;
at different periods, to which this place has been applied, it having
its head, and wears spurs like a knight. It calls you three times
and let nothing vex him; "for," said he to himself, "if you are afraid
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
When the Gray Mask Fell Off, the Golden Hair Broke Forth
off an apple, when the youth shot an arrow at him. The bird flew off,
Thick aloes, that blossom so rarely;
were lying, and petted the cock and hen, and stroked their smooth
She rose and went out, and where did she go? Over the meadows ever
It so befell that once, when they were all standing together by the
See also the quotation in note on iv. 1. 93 above. Brooke's reference to
"Yes," he answered, "but, first, I will take this little bundle of
After that they came into an avenue where all the leaves were of gold,
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep;
So he pursued his way, and by evening came to the village where the two
something better?"
latch. Beyond it lies the wide moor. I remembered your theory of
time longer, and saw a miserable death awaiting them, Maid Maleen said,
MAID MALEEN                                                      360
basilisk was said to kill with a glance. Cf. _T.N._ iii. 4. 215: "they
He had directed, in great part, the movable embellishments of the seven
"It would be a rare place for a gallop."
the 31st of January, 1805.  The new dock covers a space of fourteen
all, or he might adopt an elaborate disguise during the short
"Nay, Husband," said the woman, quite anxiously, "I find time pass
her head, and laid her in bed in place of the Queen. She gave her too
a soft voice cried from the room:
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all                            20
sleep.
_Naught_ = worthless, bad. Cf. _Much Ado_, $1. $2. 157, _Hen. V._ i. 2.
"Good," said the soldier; "then in the first place help me out of this
_W.T._ iv. 4. 244, etc. with _T.N._ iv. 1. 53, _Rich. III._ iii. 7. 191,
However, as her daughter let her have no peace, the mother at last
Wishing-Table, and the Gold-Ass. The tailor rejoiced when he saw him
It rains downright.--
Just in her case!
"Are you afraid of poison?" said the old woman. "Look, I will cut the
whole scene is the noblest paean to Love ever written, so is what Juliet
"The ring on my finger," answered the girl.
minstrels? an thou make minstrels of us, look to
so hungry!"
a country girl, so that this theory seemed to have something to
Is empty on the back of Montague,--
bury her in the dark ground," and they had a transparent coffin of
use," etc.
laughed out of court if we came with such a story and such
"But why at such an hour?"
"This is Sir Henry Baskerville," said Dr. Mortimer.
moor. You understand me? I am sure that you are the last man in
the hut in search of them. There was no trace, however, of
him coming."
"If you will go," she replied, "I will get up at once and make ready
BIRD-FOUND                                                       200
Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up."
a little child. All alone, in a small house at the end of the village,
the host was about to take the animal from him to tie him up, but the
For my wife, Dame Ilsabil,
_Nurse._ She's dead, deceas'd, she's dead; alack the day!
60.  The Sailors and Ship.
_Jul._ Make haste, make haste, this lingering doth us wrong.
Released her, that else was like to sterve
And I will take thy word. Yet, if thou swear'st,
"_Flounder, Flounder in the sea,
the water soon forces up the pavement, and a fountain is produced.
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;                           100
banished for concealing the marriage; Romeo's servant set at liberty
will be taken away from myself. Be off!" and he left the Little Man
morning to Snow-White, "Now I must go away, and cannot come back for
is a groom at the Hall, if I remember right. There are two
nerves. But how in the name of wonder did you come here, and what
journey forth into the distant kingdom, the aged Queen packed up for
and the man had a daughter, and the woman also had a daughter.
"What are you about there, Little Man?" asked Rose-Red.
"Yes, I remember."
had been twisted and bent by the fury of years of storm. Two
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
of these a staple and chain with a quantity of gnawed bones
with hir poyson, recovereth himselfe with plantaine."
and piercing swords. But the King's Son was set free, and no longer
obvious. There is as much difference to my eyes between the
were not able to do it, for every time the branches and fruit moved
gardener met him, and said, "How can you take the King's Daughter a
_Costard._ O sir, plantain, a plain plantain! ... no salve, sir,
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
In the peaceable trader I rather would be,
the modern eds.
"Well, what does she want, now?" said the Flounder.
centre of this room there was an upright beam, which had been
new series.
Now like a mighty wind they raise to heaven the voice of song,
Then the King ordered the tailor to be brought before him and said,
When the night came, and the Bride was to be led into the apartment of
published. His death the same year probably prevented his carrying out
To the dead bodies; I will apprehend him.--
Dowden points thus: "Which on more view of, many--mine being one--May,"
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
together."
been living with you in that wretched hovel are one. For love of you I
Like one asleep, her eyelids closed, her hands
iii. 5. 4: "distraught and mad with terror." Elsewhere he has
chests full of pearls and jewels.
_Romeo._ Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel.
no peasant," replied he, "but a rich Count. Nevertheless, that you may
_Hen. VIII._ ii. 3. 32:--
it was finished, he said, "Therein shall you be imprisoned for seven
The boatman plying at his oar,
on all sides by the impassable mire, which has crawled round them
often used in such innocent sense (cf. i. 4. 35 above), and is
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
brings all he needs. I dare say he goes to Coombe Tracey for what
the Mansion House, which is the place of residence for every chief
So they went home, and again Two-Eyes let her little dish stand
And take the table quite away!_'
candles, and his wife was clad in gold, and she was sitting on a much
"There can be no doubt about the matter. They meet, they write,
shadow and gloom. It was a long chamber with a step separating
_Benvolio._ Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
"Behave well, Hans."
the King ordered him to fetch this ring up from the bottom of the sea,
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
I tell thee what, get thee to church o' Thursday                 160
yet."
below.
in the bed, and the cast-off bear-skins lying on the ground.
text." The first quarto, with all its faults and imperfections, is often
best place in the Court. The servant refused everything, and asked only
"Good things, pretty things," she answered; "stay-laces of all colors,"
beer was running, she would not let her eyes be idle, but looked up at
energy that could only find relief in words. S. has exhibited the same
beautiful. The same kind of warning from the mind Romeo seems to have
uttered a shrill cry.
come out, the Bear will do you no harm, he means well."
asked if it was true that she had had brothers, and what was become of
beautiful pleasure-garden, in which there was a tree that bore Golden
take good care of ourselves, but I confess that I have had uneasy
"Of course you know the legend of the fiend dog which haunts the
stand there? Can you not come here and help me?"
pass the grave, and there, on the hazel-tree, sat the two pigeons and
"There was certainly no boot in it then."
went back again to the forest.
Only the youngest said, "I know not how it is. You are very happy, but
76. _Betossed._ Agitated; used by S. nowhere else.
front.
May be put from her by society.
And soar with them above a common bound.
"He appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks.
"Then you are yourself inclining to the supernatural
together and placed on trestles; when removed they were therefore turned
again fell in with the shoemaker, the tailor had always the most in his
"Well, what does she want, now?" said the Flounder.
gentleman left his cigar-ash. It is a white wooden gate with a
forward quietly and see what they are doing--but for heaven's sake
_K. John_, iv. 3. 97: "thy hasty spleen;" _Rich. III._ v. 3. 350:
apple in two pieces. You eat the red cheek, and I will eat the white."
degraded to plebeian occupancy, and the only mark of its ancient dignity
it is essential that you should do it."
The maiden answered, "We will leave him that; he has lost his wealth."
me to do with him?"
you were inside it, until I was within twenty paces of the door."
prepared, not by the author of the play, but by some other person; and
Chapter 8  First Report of Dr. Watson
man or woman in my life that I know of. And yet he would not so
55. _Adversity's sweet milk._ Cf. _Macb._ iv. 3. 98: "the sweet milk of
the father of this lad Henry. The third, Rodger, was the black
The tailor did not trust to that, but went down and asked, "Goat, have
"If you have never worn them, why did you put them out to be
ones doggerel verse is much used instead. See on 10 above.
6. _Conjure._ Accented by S. on either syllable, without regard to the
32. _Dear._ See on v. 2. 19 above.
fact."
think you, if we were to stay up to-night to see who it is that lends
Thus from my lips by thine my sin is purg'd.      [_Kissing her._
you will see what will happen."
spinning. It was already dusk, and a log which was burning on the
hands her own life would not be safe. Eventually, as we know, she
of cake and a bottle of wine. Take them to your Grandmother. She is ill
Whereupon the eldest wished for pearls, the second wished for diamonds,
heads as the birds do when they drink, and the brindled cow also took a
_Page._ He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave
Of skilful painting, made for Priam's Troy.'
"A touch, Watson--an undeniable touch!" said he. "I feel a foil as
"A beard?"
"What is the alley like?"
to the table, seated herself by the gray-haired man, ate and satisfied
And a magnificent Princess alighted from the coach, and went into the
clerical sense." There seems to be at least a hint of that sense,
[_Exit Balthasar._
"As the old cocke crowes so doeth the chick:
When he reached home and entered his house, the first who met him was
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say ay,                       90
statue, a personification of alertness and expectation.
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two
called Falada, the waiting-maid said, "Falada is more suitable for me,
"Has anything escaped me?" I asked with some self-importance. "I
what more was left for her to be, but unable to call to mind anything
SCENE II.--4. _Reckoning._ Estimation, reputation.
them, but as we at last reached firmer ground beyond the morass
Boisteau's novel was given in Paynter's _Palace of Pleasure_, in 1567.
reign of Henry VIII. an act was passed declaring the employment of
was sentenced to be burned.
At this moment, he saw a couple of young ducks which were on a pond,
She shall be married to this noble earl."
[Picture: Carleton House]
We poor sailors, lame and blind,
"Did any see it after?"
can be allowed for the interval, unless we add another day and accept
So he turned on to a side path and the Ant-King cried out to him, "We
of a well has never yet seized me."
Great store of cunning Epitaphes, in honor of theyr death.
ran home and told him of the misfortune.
in the room, and he slept so soundly that she could not waken him.
The Old Woman, however, was a Witch and said to the maiden, "There
_Lady Capulet._ Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
The bad into the crop!_"
"Well, I'll answer," she said. "What are your questions?"
90. _Elf-locks._ Hair matted or clotted, either from neglect or from the
But the third task was the most difficult. From amongst the three
The East Wind and the West Wind came, and had seen nothing, but the
emptied her whole heart, and said, "Here am I deserted by the whole
Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door--
The King said to him, "You may return to your home, I need you no
being with Grandmother so much."
about to drink, the heavy stones made him fall in. There was no help
satisfy the hunger of the whole world. And there was the greatest
i. 4. 74, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem, where Juliet referring to Romeo,
demeanour.
make a grand annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, &c. which
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
90. _Blister'd_, etc. "Note the Nurse's mistake of the mind's audible
gave him a sound thrashing.
window while Dr. Mortimer was reading his legend."
61. _Dislike._ Displease. Cf. _Oth._ ii. 3. 49: "I'll do 't; but it
"It is useless for us to pretend that we do not know you, Dr.
glare, its muzzle and hackles and dewlap were outlined in
_Enter_ Watch, _with the_ Page _of_ PARIS
"My dear fellow, how can you possibly be so sure of that?"
children with "the intent to raise in them an hateful loathing of so
off. Then his golden hair fell down over his shoulders, and he was so
_Romeo._ But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
Grethel presents Hans with a calf.
up in a very effective way, though I had already come to the same
"At length he saw a mayd, right fayre of perfect shape:
For ancient grutch whych long ago 'tweene these two houses was."
"You mean that the thing is supernatural?"
Cartwright down with me--you remember the little chap at the
was too smooth and suddenly sprang asunder, and the tree closed so
the names of the people there. And she repeated to the Little Man
Pursued my humour, not pursuing his,
120. _Aspir'd._ Not elsewhere used transitively by S. Cf. Chapman,
116. _Conduct._ See on iii. 1. 127 above. For _unsavoury_, cf. _V. and
word only twice.
Through lover's brains, and then they dream of love;
"white and azure lac'd
have softened; but now, when two black-clothed gentlemen sat in
out, "Keep away! For goodness' sake keep away!"
hat on his head. But the King's Daughter went up to him and took it
"As to the latter part, I have no means of checking you," said I,
take you, and let them do what they will, only take the Blue Light with
THE GOOSE-GIRL
_Princox_ = a pert or impertinent boy; used by S. only here. Steevens
recollection and from notes taken during the performance;" the latter
you for aid. But this is splendid, really unique from some points
THE BREMEN TOWN-MUSICIANS
When the tailor was thus left quite alone in his house, he fell into
I confess at these words a shudder passed through me. There was a
93. _Take thou this vial_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
excessive warmth, for he had been drinking much.  The man wore motley.
I called aloud--
ii. 4. 208:--
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
Bartlett's _Concordance to Shakespeare_ (1895); Abbott's _Shakespearian
meantime, the goat might run all over the world. Come, let us go home
"That is in answer to mine of this morning. He is the best of the
"Very likely. How far do you think it is?"
myself in the sitting-room once more.
Baskerville, and as I had the story from my father, who also
substantially in the opinion that the first quarto was a pirated
167. _Attending._ Attentive. Cf. _T.A._ v. 3. 82: "To lovesick Dido's
tree:
"Sir," said I, "or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
HOW SIX MEN GOT ON IN THE WORLD
Old Man, and ate what he had left. It was not long before the cock and
his interview with a frankness and directness which considerably
child who had clung to her hand. Evil indeed is the man who has
vulgar, the buffoonery humours of Bartholomew Fair, which was first
"How can you say that, sir?"
"Run off," said the tailor, "I see you are still a giddy thing."
of the carnival!"
law-associations, are called Inns of Court.  The buildings of the Temple
_Sampson._ No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you,
He tried to stagger to his feet; but he was still ghastly pale
will remember you, and repay you for saving us!"
Passion-lover!" See on 29 below.
height of selfishness if he were to stand in the way of her
it is evident that our friend has large ideas and means to spare
Son whom she had released from the Iron Stove in the great forest, was
What passion of hatred can it be which leads a man to lurk in
that it was natural that the subject should come up for
iv. 1(48), 2(12), 3(56); v. 3(13). Whole no. 290.
needle in her hand and sang:
thinks it is for the good of the poor folk upon the moor. He
crimes, he has suffered something to atone for them. And then I
only too anxious to be there.
not suffer any one to do her injury. She, however, sat continually
the waterman, who attends on hackney-coaches and their employers, seems
would be very angry if he knew that I have said anything which
_Nurse._ Peter, stay at the gate.                  [_Exit Peter._
"Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had a proper amount of food?"
shot one single yellow beam across the gloom of the corridor. We
confidence which you showed in me when you sent me down. All
robbers. If they come home and find you, they will kill you."
incredible facial distortion--so great that Dr. Mortimer
chemist, we are not surprised at his furnishing the sleeping-draught for
To live with him, and sing in endless morn of light!"
familiar to them. At length, they saw from afar their father's house.
ACT V
30. _The fire._ S. appears to have forgotten that the time was in
The King said to the miller, "That is an art which pleases me well.
Go before, nurse, commend me to thy lady,
etc.
the pleasure of mean triumph over fallen royalty.  Revet, however, had
married to her grave!"
certain passages of the revised version are certainly later; but I think
Mortimer, I think you could not do better than to tell your story
and wood-sparrows, larks and finches, blackbirds and siskins had picked
When he was going away, he turned round again and said, "Well, are you
A gyft he had that nature gaue him in his swathing band.
the calculated moment. This pressure on her brain, crowned by the vivid
SCENE IV.--11. _Mew'd up._ Shut up. Cf. _T of S._ i. 1. 87, 188, etc.
matter with you, brother Fox, why do you look like that?"
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
"Ah," said the woman, "I had rather have no riches; if I am not to know
smaller than the time before. On the way into the forest, Haensel
but it was far too cold, and also awful and malicious. And when it saw
"Go to it, then, she is standing before the door," said the Flounder.
11. _Hours._ A dissyllable; as in iii. 1. 198.
been interrupted by his death.  Being himself childless, it was
And in his shop he saw his boxes were but fewe,
84. _Ay, madam_, etc. Johnson remarks that "Juliet's equivocations are
wretched, that she knew not what to do. At first she would not go to
lips parted in amazement. At the same instant Lestrade gave a
_Lady Capulet._ Why, how now, Juliet!
"And the one beyond, which shines so brightly?"
my poor uncle's idea. How is the owner going to restore the
still a straight back and young legs, it would be a trifle to you.
Water-cresses fresh and young;
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
of the prologue; and it is most emphatically repeated at the close of
spans 240 feet, and the two others 210 feet each.  The weight of iron is
food, much better than any we have here. When she has eaten all she
apprentices had brought home with them. One of them was blind and the
_M.N.D._ iii. 2. 387, _T. and C._ v. 3. 9, etc.
18. _Nice._ Trifling, unimportant. See on iii. 1. 157 above. For
"_The good into the pot,
O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,
The great number of monuments, and other curiosities of this venerable
the bundle, but he labored in vain. It stuck as fast to his back, as if
beside her, who said, "Why are you weeping, little Two-Eyes?"
Doting like me and like me banished,
features.
"_Oh, Queen, in this land thou art fairest of all._"
of building stone and mortar.  With these materials and with the aid of
Shakespeare_ (revised ed. 1882); Mrs. Jameson's _Characteristics of
know enough about your affairs to be able to help you, as you say
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.                        139
S. forgot what he had just made him tell us" (iii. 4. 27). But, as
Baskerville Hall. A boulder of granite concealed our approach,
84. _Mistemper'd._ Tempered to an ill end (Schmidt). Steevens explains
good time.
dog-cart over a rough moorland track which led from the outlying
In such a gorgeous palace!
they had wished for, and to Ash-Maiden he gave the branch from the
For thee the sturdy pavior thumps the ground,
am King," and for this reason, the other birds call him in mockery,
See, what a scourge is aid upon your hate,
o'clock."
to get fire-wood. There they found a big tree which lay felled on the
date, 1647, are on the back of the canvas."
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
Wire received. Coming down with unsigned warrant. Arrive
was in the habit every night before going to bed of walking
us their men.
The Bear said, "Here, Children, knock the snow out of my coat a
going to school, while everything else in the wood is merry."
such a meal took place as the good tailor had never yet known in his
_Romeo._ I 'll tell thee, ere thou ask it me again.
keeping with the rest.
handed it over to the Queen. In it there were little paper parcels
"_Looking-Glass, Looking-Glass, on the wall,
destroyed by fire, the fields far and wide laid to waste, and no human
Children, who has brought you here? Do come in, and stay with me. No
Meanwhile, the gifts of the Wise Women were fulfilled on the young
Shall keep his native progress but surcease.
They, however, still had a swineherd's daughter, who was even prettier
No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
"Never mind, will do better next time."
thousands."
pieces, and showed them the way.
Chapter 2  The Curse of the Baskervilles
decoyed outside of his grounds at night. Several times Stapleton
Nothing can exceed the noise, bustle, and hurry, of the streets of
"I have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have driven him off
Sir Charles?"
work and thirsty, so she stood still, lifted up her head and cried,
the Queen noticed his absence. She was curious and wanted to know what
weeping together."
So many thousand times?--Go, counsellor;
extremity. I must hence to wait; I beseech you,
sings upon the same tree for many weeks together (Steevens). This is
falconer's voice_. Cf. _T. of S._ iv. 1. 196:--
"We must leave you now," said Holmes. "The rest of our work must
Shakspeare to a direct borrowing from mere observation; and the reason
CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
one his stockings, and at last one of them blew out the candle.
the miller began to feel at ease. The boy grew up to be a youth and
have escaped our notice."
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
"No; I told my wife what to answer and she went down to write
Examine every married lineament
her.  Whereat Hugo ran from the house, crying to his grooms
night, was seated at the breakfast table. I stood upon the
fell off, and her brothers stood in their own form before her, vigorous
set free they all went on their way together.
"I did not say that I desired you to do it."
440). Cf. _Cymb._ ii. 2. 21:--
there was left for her to be.
interrogation mark after _tears_, as the 2d quarto does.
It was not long before the tailor saw the sun rise behind the
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!                           160
"About as much gold as an ass can carry," answered he.
have none shortly, for one would kill the other.
"Oh, no," replied the boy, "the wild ones have more scent, and will
The animals answered "_Duks_."
"There will be plenty for us to do tomorrow. Tonight we can only
of an evening half-penny paper as there could be between your
to have wished for something. She does not like to live in a wretched
Doth make against me, of this direful murther;
Shakespeare's plays will be readily understood; as _T.N._ for _Twelfth
3. _My bosom's lord._ That is, my heart; not Love, or Cupid, as some
had already fallen, and little was wanting to make the rest give way.
When she heard the Glass speak thus, she trembled and shook with rage.
black, full beard?"
Her own daughter, who was as ugly as night, and had only one eye,
Then a voice inside the Iron Stove said, "I will help you to get home,
"I'll look to like, if looking liking move;
ROMEO AND JULIET.
by the little tailor, whose importance increased daily.
being by." He is hardly less "a stranger in the world" than Juliet
It was now determined that, on this fine morning, they should at once
eat as much as I want, and the good animals to have nothing? Outside is
him, he wanted to take her away. But she was afraid of the Queen,
back, and went away with his comrades.
As we came round the top of the stairs we had run up against Sir
Giulietta_,[1] published about 1530, is the first to call the lovers
table, supporting his face with both hands, and his white beard fell
"Our Tarquin thus
he to her, "or I shall starve."
left me such a bitter sweet to gnaw upon."
At last the woman came back, and said in a hollow voice, "Greet thee,
_Nurse._ I will tell her, sir, that you do protest,
The cook scolded them and said, "You fools! Why did you not pull the
up pebbles. But the woman had locked the door, and Haensel could not
And when the seventh came to the bottom of the glass, the ring rolled
No one can imagine how magnificent the crown was. When the sun shone on
translated by Margaret Hunt, introduction by Andrew Lang, Bohn Library.
Daughter to come, and tell her all must be done as was promised. And
third of _overthrows_. In iv. 2. 18 ("Of disobedient opposition") only
So the malicious shoemaker betook himself for the fourth time to the
lived. There he met an Old Woman, who asked him where he was going.
_Capulet._ Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon.
profound and child-loving scholars, the Brothers Grimm, retained in the
nothing to add to his anxieties, but I will take my own steps to
114 below.
_Sampson._ 'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant;
that it shall rise up in the midst of the courtyard to a man's height
the word (_Temp._ v. 1. 40, _M. for M._ iv. 2. 78, _Lear_, iii. 4. 121),
curtains closed. The Queen ought not to see the light yet, and must
Bertillon must always appeal strongly."
the King and Queen were not at home, and the maiden was left in the
"No, my dear fellow, it is at the hour of action that I turn to
so happy, and so well off, envy and hatred rose in her heart and left
case, for in _V. and A._ 140 the goddess says "Mine eyes are grey and
everywhere, she thought, "Suppose I take Grandmother a fresh nosegay.
_Servingman._ I know not, sir.
poison and gall, but she could not come within two paces of him. He did
there is any life left in him.
49, _A.W._ iii. 7. 22, etc.
victim to the jealousy of Mary.  Her piety, magnanimity, and conscious
Lies my consent and fair according voice;"--
In Africa's forests, bewilder'd and dark;
weakly, or by the nobility and others, who attend at the levees at court.
About this time, the Son of the King was traveling about the country
Bird-Found said, "Neither now, nor ever."
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
mysteries which had succeeded each other so rapidly. Setting
best, Mr. Holmes, but they've got a bit over the mark this time."
obedience; so we bade good-bye to our rueful friend, and a couple
ii. 1. 44, etc.
KING THRUSHBEARD
22. _The vaulty heaven._ Cf. _K. John_, v. 2. 52: "the vaulty top of
"Not till you have opened the door for me," answered the man.
before the door. Then she took him by the hand and said to him, "Just
Like a tall bully, lifts its head and lies."
always, Amen," and helped herself to some food, and enjoyed it. And
is here a quadrisyllable.
thread, and the Goat cut open the monster's stomach. Hardly had she
hand, sat down to her loom, and began to weave.
Of a despised life clos'd in my breast
up another ass in his place. Early next morning, the apprentice went
the Frog in front of it. Then she slammed the door in great haste, sat
and she held her hand to her side.
BALTHASAR, servant to Romeo.
Then the man threw the wonderful Fish back again into the water, and
The first said, "I grant that she may grow uglier every day."
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
the fourth; and then I heard the furious vibrations of the chain.  The
Should know what fowl is coffin'd in a bak'd meat
[Illustration]
"_Bricklebrit!_"
suite of chambers.  But in the corridors that followed the suite, there
"Thank you kindly, Wolf."
Women may fall when there's no strength in men.                   80
"A woman's whim, Dr. Watson. When you know me better you will
"Not a shadow of one--only surmise and conjecture. We should be
Street, which took fire on both sides, and more houses were consumed than
{65}  When in Palestine, Edward nearly escaped being murdered by an
mountain, the clouds will lay hold of him and bear him away." So saying
were not encouraging. The idea of some ghastly presence
"Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!
moor.
the sun itself, which has seen so much, was astonished whenever it
panting, and pressed my pistol to the dreadful, shimmering head,
chiming of the clock, and then were the same disconcert and
"If he isn't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be
sack, and said, "There is a Cudgel in it."
"We're at close grips at last," said Holmes as we walked together
kind that each stitch must always be exactly like the other. If I no
This edition of _Romeo and Juliet_, first published in 1879, is now
28. _Dear mercy._ True mercy. Cf. _Much Ado_, i. 1. 129: "A dear
well worth seeing by every admirer of the arts of painting and statuary.
which had been stored up in winter for that salutary purpose.  The ice,
firm uplands are becoming a morass. I found the black tor upon
"To our minds," says Clarke, "the intention was to show how grief and
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
enthusiasm and power of attachment. Poor Sir Charles's head was
and she went away.
third. And when three days were over, the first ray of light fell on
two expressions were sometimes used interchangeably. The _five wits_, on
the exact figure. Her marriage was evidently a worldly one, arranged by
small armoury contains stands of arms for one hundred thousand men,
And whosoever wished to return to the town, had to eat his way back.
out of necessity. My wife saw your rampion from the window, and felt
1817.
So her mother gave her a knife, and said, "Cut a bit off your heel.
"Yes, I did."
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
in _Oth._ iv. 2. 239; and in a loose contemptuous way, as here (= silly
Driving back shadows over lowering hills;
_1 Musician._ Marry, sir, because silver hath a
gone.
229. _Strucken._ The early eds. have "strucken" or "strooken." S. also
with her. The mother took them away from her, and instead of treating
downstairs, and were merry and happy.
Little Dog of the limping leg,
"No, no. I remember the thrill in your voice. I remember the look
100. _Grave._ Farmer cites Lydgate's _Elegy on Chaucer_: "My master
"Well, he was up in the loft at the time, so that I could not put
her, but she did not dare to tell any one about it.
The girl went home, and told her father what the woman had said. The
existed in the world.
I dreamt my lady came and found me dead--
bad. Her story got about, and several of the people here did
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me                             50
alternative theories, balanced one against the other, and made up
house, because your eldest sister is to be married, and if you are
all? What is he after?"
"Yes; they were on the edge of the path on the same side as the
first nobility" (Percy). To _shift a trencher_ was a technical term. For
325: "The secret mischiefs that I set abroach."
convent to which the "barefoot brother" belonged.
ourselves in the infinite goodness of Providence, which
The reasons for the choice of prose or verse are not always so clear as
in a count of heads, but in estimation (_reckoning_, with a play on the
Chapter 13 Fixing the Nets
"Where is the needle, Hans?"
saw that One-Eye was fast asleep, and could discover nothing, she said:
at nothing."
68. _Conjurations._ Solemn entreaties; as in _Rich. II._ iii. 2. 23,
regular use, where the body of Tybalt has just been deposited, and as
locks. In the middle of the door there was a little pane, through which
have a little boy who tends the geese, she may help him."
3. _Scape._ Not "'scape," as often printed. The word is used in prose;
once before."
showed some ability during the investigation."
He answered, "Two miles from here a fly is sitting on the branch of an
_Nurse._ My fan, Peter.
with Gold                                                    188
say:
_Nurse._ O lamentable day!
down as if dead.
Do not ask me for particulars. My nets are closing upon him, even
Who comes riding hither, as black as a coal,
"Who is she?" I asked.
And hardly know how to believe my own eyes.
a very good blade! a very tall man!'--Why, is not
"Then send for the butcher, and have the head of the horse on which I
"What!" said the tailor, "drag bread for seven days on one's back like
"He and his wife had five hundred pounds each."
little stable, and shut him in with a grated door. He might scream as
grass-grown path by which we had come.
horse, attended by her page.  The axe that beheaded the unfortunate Ann
Whilst sitting in your chair.
away the honey, but Simpleton again stopped them and said, "Leave the
days, but the results have, I fear, been negative. One thing only
with their heads and began _pick, pick, pick, pick,_ and the others
_Juliet._ Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
time Benvolio enters on the opposite side" (Steevens).
comments on the speech p. 290 below.
What twayne are those (quoth she) which prease vnto the doore,
greater every minute, and as the juicy leaves were suitable to his
For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
meaning that was the servant who brought the first dish.
When the three servants came to the forest, nothing was there but a
"Nothing else but an ass."
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
The gentleman's servant with the letter, seems to be sent from some
instinctively use. Especially are they exactly the sort of shifts and
"Alas," said the man, "she wants to be Pope."
should perceive and suggest all these methods of avoiding public
mother died, we have had no happiness; our stepmother beats us every
love of the _bizarre_.  The apartments were so irregularly disposed that
So they made another condition. He should be King who could go down
she could no longer live.
prisons; the other entitled _Bloody_, which, too many who entered it,
wine which will be brought to you at night."
stones in his stomach made him very thirsty, he wanted to go to a well
the world, and try each of you to learn a trade. When you all come
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanc'd
"You stupid, prying goose!" answered the Dwarf; "I was going to split
tradesmen.
autocrat. His eyes looked malignantly at me, and his grey
called to his servant to climb up and catch the little creature.
below, and bring your golden ball up again."
to talk of all the wonderful things which he had seen in the world.
_Banquet_ sometimes meant a dessert, as here and in _T. of S._ v. 2.
hanging up in the shop of an ancient apothecary at Limehouse, as well as
66.  Waterloo Bridge
outhouse on the evening that Sir Henry was coming to dinner. She
With this immodest clamorous outrage
and those who had been turned to stone received once more their natural
leaps.
"You will not be surprised when you hear what has befallen me," replied
back, and then their supper had to be ready.
She wakes, and I entreated her come forth                      260
Dove-drawn with her;"
hast. Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking                   20
with little bells and hung it round about her, and she still went on
And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
same time he seized the youngest by the hand in order to pull her away.
15. _Too swift_, etc. "The more haste, the worse speed."
Eagerly I wished the morrow;--vainly I had sought to borrow
your companion and playfellow, and sit by you at your little table, and
back to you. Watson, you will send a note to Stapleton to tell
correction is due to Theobald, and is generally adopted.
while Antonio is so in all Spanish or Spanish-American countries.
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
distemperatures and foes to life."
circumstances which led up to the old man's death. Was it
much that he could carry no more. (I can see in your face that you also
After the huntsman had washed his face, so that the transformed ones
Tell me why it was that you were so eager that Sir Henry should
"Good!" said Holmes. "Excellent!"
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
"Let me have the Hotel Directory," said Holmes. "Thank you! Now,
THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES
106. _Expire._ The only instance of the transitive use in S. Cf.
Was ever book containing such vile matter
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not;
village street or else burned in effigy, according to his latest
Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
A pack of blessings lights upon thy back,
fain lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as
"There is no other claimant, I presume?"
From the Custom House it is but a few steps to Tower-hill.  Well, there
What could he do? He was obliged to submit to his fate, and crawl
For here we need it not.
morning instead of Friday. If so, instead of extending the "two and
said, "Good-day, dear huntsman, truly you are merry and contented, but
moor. "Do you see that Black Tor over yonder? Well, do you see
lady is his wife and not his sister."
"I know," said Holmes.
Every night, when they were in them, the King locked the door, and
and it would take him some time before he could prepare himself
never gone out without keeping a sharp watch, and no one could
of the house of Montagues, I pray, come and crush
supposed that no ordinary appearance could have excited such sensation.
so then I lost my temper too, and I answered him rather more
any one but the Tabby-Cat and her servants.
think over all that you have told me. It's a big thing for a man
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.--
men, indeed; one cries food for the mind, and the other food for the
efforts of the rustics to lift the log, and from sundry arch
Ah, silly lad! he would go out of his depth, though he knew he was not a
wine.
condemnation of his "plesaunt invective against Poets, Pipers, Plaiers,
She hesitated and looked down.
_Lady Capulet._ That is, because the traitor murtherer lives.
a snow-white beard a yard long. The end of the beard was caught in a
fine Gothic pile, and was founded by _Sebert_, king of the East Saxons,
uncle's death I am not sure that of all the five hundred cases of
when the Hawk fluttereth with her Wings either from Pearch or Fist, as
also _Hebrews_, xi. 23.
with Romeo till I behold him dead; 4. Till I behold him, dead is my poor
[Picture: The funeral]
some of the leaves. They do not taste particularly good, but they will
It was now midnight, and my task was drawing to a close.  I had
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.
old folk-tales which, with so much pains, they gathered largely from
"It must be a wild place."
[_He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it._
so on it, I promised him he should be my companion; but I never thought
ragged beggar. But when he peeped in, he saw a magnificent golden man
she would never be happy until I had left it. I told her that
verse." If in rare instances we think we find exceptions to this latter
man said, "What shall I do? Marriage is a joy, also a torment!"
spread-eagled some dark, irregular object. As we ran towards it
And but thou love me, let them find me here.
to in _Whimzies, or a New Cast of Characters_, 1631: "His
The Masque of the Red Death
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
Cotgrave apparently uses _runaway_ and _runagate_ as nearly equivalent
to new mutiny," where the accent is shifted from the sixth to the fifth
More honourable state, more courtship lives
That one short minute gives me in her sight.
thought he saw in the distance a little spark burning. So he called out
accomplice was one who could never give him away, and the
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin."
_Mercutio._ But I'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.
"At thone syde of her chayre, her lover Romeo:
appropriated to the prince, and thinks that on that account Juliet
remembered, was found six months later alive and married in New
92. _Upon his brow_, etc. Steevens quotes Paynter: "Is it possible that
pedler-woman was no one else than the wicked Queen. Take care and let
increased of its own accord, and whenever she wove a piece of cloth
That I scarce was sure I heard you"--here I opened wide the door--
which I could see, save only those prehistoric huts which lay
sleeping daughters of the King, the youngest and dearest was to be
should picture him in wax." White adds from Lyly, _Euphues and his
Come, lady fair, my posies buy,
shadows.
same century, it appears that they were common to the tables of the
Henry that I should walk over in time for dinner. Then I followed
88. _Well said._ Well done. Cf. _Oth._ ii. 1. 169, v. 1. 98, etc.
He turned towards me, and looked into my eyes with two filmy orbs that
dagger. Answer me like men:
with us?"
touch."
be much obliged to you if you will call upon me here, and it will
had the same meaning then that it has now, would have suited the verse
But thou slew'st Tybalt; there art thou happy too.
THE THREE LITTLE MEN IN THE WOOD
hurled a rock which splintered up against the boulder which had
"You paragon of beauty," said the wicked woman, "you are done for now!"
the Star newspaper.
superstition not yet forgotten in some parts of the country. It was
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones,
hair fall into the well," said he. "I will allow you to watch by it
came to an end, reached the Prince.
evening, and then they went home.
rosewater, and that will keep your almonds from oiling: when your paste
monoliths which are supposed to have marked their temples. As you
logical sequence, the several dismal contingencies that await her"--thus
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows, make me old.
salmon, which weighed about eight pounds.
"Heat them, and they retort that heat again
room and went on with her spinning. And a saying which the old woman
continue to wear the dress worn in the days of the virtuous and youthful
was standing at the window of the one from which came the music, and
a Frog stretching its thick, ugly head from the water. "Ah! old
each scene.
schoolmaster in the north of England. Now, there is no one more
delineation. The young girl, the very young girl, the girl brought up as
Another day--two at the most--and I have my case complete, but
interesting study.
"The watchemen of the towne the whilst are passed by,
convinced that you were sitting in ambush, a weapon within reach,
34. _Sort._ Select. Cf. iii. 5. 108 above.
morning that we had seen him in Baker Street. We caught the one
is sometimes celebrated in the evening ("aliquando _ad vesperam_").
nothing but crab-shells. Every morning the woman crept to the little
turned an empty barrel, which was standing close by the tree, over
There is no reason whatever to suspect foul play, or to
So when the hour of parting had come, the aged mother went into her
and _Oth._ iv. 3. 41.
improvements, for the health and comfort of the inhabitants.
marble, or has only a few green osiers bound over his grave."
as if in confused revery or meditation.  But when the echoes had fully
And on the mariage day, before the sunne doe cleare the skye,
There was once upon a time, a miller who lived with his wife in great
_Mercutio._ A challenge, on my life.
John Clayton departed chuckling, and Holmes turned to me with a
feathers out. She only flies out by night, but hates and pursues mice
IRON JOHN
gentleman and found that he had been farming in Canada. From the
188. _Purg'd._ That is, from smoke.
stooped over the dead man. I heard a sharp intake of his breath
her a Golden Spinning-Wheel, consoled her and said, "All is not yet
1. After the tenth syllable an unaccented syllable (or even two such
castle awoke, and the youth was laid hold of and put into prison.
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
such things."
from any help. There are one maid, an old manservant, the sister,
There is a society in London, of which Dr. Hawes and Dr. Lettsom were the
Cf. ii. 4. 198 above.
*       *       *       *       *
they did not doubt but that she was their lost daughter. They walked
maid-servant came out of the house, and cried to him to rejoice, for
101. _To be strange._ To appear coy or shy. Cf. iii. 2. 15 below:
into the forest. Be on your guard against the Wolf. If he come in, he
the face as a moss-rose, she herself did not know why.
29. _Misadventure._ Mischance, misfortune; used by S. only here and in
Upon his new-got spoil."
no other than his youngest and dearest daughter, who came running up,
too much stress on the Nurse's reference (i. 3. 22, 35) to the
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
If he be slain, say ay; or if not, no.                            50
Belliver and Vixen Tor. Over the wide expanse there was no sound
37. _Thought._ Expected, hoped; as in _Much Ado_, ii. 3. 236, etc.
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
Snow-White; first an owl, then a raven, and last a dove.
longer because of the many wounds which he had received.
therefore, that she was telling the truth, or, at least, a part
towards it. If the gipsy's evidence may be taken as true, he ran
But he heard a rustling in the branches, and a Golden Apple fell into
inclined to go there, my Lions shall conduct you."
superfluous.
have "clapped them on the shoulder," but, they are really "heart-whole."
[Illustration: "PERHAPS," SAID SHE, "YOUR NAME IS RUMPELSTILTSKIN?"]
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
Then he was to go with him and bring back the stolen money.
* * * * *
asked him to meet me."
of all, I mean the statue of Charles the Second, on a pedestal.  In a few
some great misfortune! I must away to see if I can possibly rescue him."
Mr. Holmes. I had hardly expected so dolichocephalic a skull or
my life."
that my point of view would have been the same as yours, and my
"_I have eaten so much,
fruit-tree tops are tipped with silver and the nightingale sings on the
"Ah, there is a horrible Witch sitting in the house, who spat on me
that you do not burn your coat." Then she cried, "Snow-White, Rose-Red,
himself. Love develops him as it does her, but more slowly.
yielded, made her a magnificent dress of fur, which she was obliged to
A shoemaker, by no fault of his own, had become so poor that at last he
last the girl said, "Be quiet, dear little Roe, I will never, never
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
collection.  She stands in a spirited attitude, by a cream-coloured
10. _Like fire and powder._ For the simile, cf. iii. 3. 132 and v. 1. 64
ghost], but she instantly recovers herself, recognizes the illusion, ...
sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the pores, with
interest. I had observed some newspaper comment at the time, but
And usest none in that true use indeed
[_Knocking within._
to be so impudent to her master; but, as we have seen, the Nurse is an
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
Stapleton would not hear of it.
"Well, I don't profess to understand it yet. This case of yours
feast.
73. _Tender._ Regard, cherish. Cf. _Ham._ i. 3. 107: "Tender yourself
cannot folk, with their clumsy beasts, keep off our bodies? That stupid
darkness. The great ordeal was in front of us; at last we were
his power by sharing all his plans with him. There was an old
Grethel presents Hans with a knife.
SCENE II. _Capulet's Orchard_
country it is often welcome to the farmer, whose corn and grass are made
lawyer in the Temple, as there is a view of the gardens and fountain.
When she had got inside, a little Dwarf came to meet her, who said, "My
Then she thanked the Sun, and went on until evening came and the Moon
Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.          [_Exeunt._
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow.
made Sir Henry so keen upon the adventure.
Who reft by force of armies from thee thy living breath,
little knowledge of botany, it must be not only an entertaining, but even
"So much for the death of Sir Charles Baskerville. You perceive
the centre one being one hundred feet wide.  Over each pier is a recess,
"Ah, dear Father, yesterday when I was in the forest sitting by the
Immediately the shuttle sprang out of her hand and out by the door.
That thou her maid art far more fair than she.
{9}  Published at 58, Holborn Hill.
baronet had told me that he had handed his old wardrobe to
your own good? Go back to London! Start tonight! Get away from
quiet life upon the moor.
the moment, forbids any attempt to excuse or palliate it. But we must
other being a monosyllable. In _J.C._ iii. 1. 172: "As fire drives fire,
poor in?" etc. _Fair_ = fair one; as in _M.N.D._ i. 1. 182, etc.
themselves unable to do it, and call for more assistance. The game
The road to the forest led him to the gallows. Worn out with anger,
Then they will bring you a blessing."
When they got back to the royal palace, she hurried into the Bride's
But get their bread some honest way,
52. _Detestable._ For the accent on the first syllable (as always in
Thou! why, thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath
own."
this fashion they came at last upon the hounds.  These,
fine arches, 120 feet span.  The piers are twenty feet thick, ornamented
Most of the critics have assumed that Shakespeare makes Juliet only
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
clergyman, cause a most delightful and affecting sensation in the minds
character--which animates every line she utters--which kindles every
would be secured for the Barrymores. But surely such an
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!--
found shelter with compassionate people.
167. _Hilding._ See on ii. 4. 43 above.
evening. On the contrary, the evidence is that he avoided the
suggested the means of mischief. All other thoughts had passed out of
"Yes, he did."
3053. The line-numbering is that of the Globe ed.
Then she crept into the iron stove, and began to weep and lament, and
mill faithfully for many a long year; but his strength was going, and
went into the room, she had such a strange feeling, that she said to
table for me every day when I spoke your charm, has been killed by my
command?"
it grew there. He turned and twisted, but he could not get rid of it.
the rooms, till at last you will come to a chamber where a Golden Bird
a splendid garden could be seen. It was full of the most beautiful
park, slap across it, sir, within a hundred yards of his own
Thereupon he summoned together all the tailors in the whole kingdom,
"Never mind, will do better."
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.--
have their siedge and lodging?" The image of shame _sitting_ on the brow
"Very good, sir. If I must I must."
[Picture: The Charity Children]
answered. "Did you, for example, happen to hear someone, a woman
bed that stood there, and lay in a deep sleep. And this sleep extended
Then the Wolf ran to a baker, and said, "I have hurt my feet, rub some
Sea, there it has become a Lion again, for the seven years are over.
riches, _can be destroyed by death_, who shall, by the same blow, put an
no reason to be ashamed of it. I wished him to help me. I
herself in her gray gown, and kept nothing but the jewel on her neck,
and walked over a Glass Mountain, and over three sharp swords and a
up and bore the flute away with it.
the morning," said the baronet. "I guess I should have some
because musicians have no gold for sounding.
4. 39, v. 4. 167, etc. But why may not _question_ repeat the idea of
speak, and the shadows sprang up and down from the shaking of his
craggy cairns and tors. A cold wind swept down from it and set us
Sir Henry and I sat at breakfast the sunlight flooded in through
again felt a change, and resumed his human shape.
voice. "I really think that you will be more comfortable outside
medals, &c. that, in fact, the only way to form an idea of them, is to
has happened to the well?"
SCENE V.--2. _Shift a trencher._ "Trenchers [wooden plates] were still
"What jewel?" she answered; "you did not give me any jewel."
Chapter 4  Sir Henry Baskerville
43. _Apt enough to._ Ready enough for. Cf. iii. 3. 157 below.
_Nurse._ Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
"Because I received help in the interval from another source."
[_The Page whistles._
course to the effects of the earthquake. Daniel (in Dowden's ed.) quotes
Who in this land is the fairest of all?_"
fatigue.  But it was not the sight of her body, nor yet was
He stayed there in the house and had good meat and drink, but never saw
And bring me the great box._"
feet upon his back and rolled him about, or they took a hazel-switch
"Yes, the wicket-gate which leads on to the moor."
very little of society, as we infer from Benvolio's advising him to go
will do that, I will grant you your life, and you shall have the bird
O, now be gone; more light and light it grows.
the large iron ones underground, into the houses, is frozen.  As some
Once on a time there was a King who had a great forest near his palace,
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
satisfactorily explained the origin of the phrase. Malone quotes
him, and said his morning prayer.
And now the little sister wept over her poor bewitched little brother,
they? They are sped" (that is, provided for).
money as they may have received.
_V. and A._ to _Venus and Adonis_; _L.C._ to _Lover's Complaint_; and
will never see her more!"
not have come from her."
can stop a disastrous scandal. You will see how impossible it is
I think I hear one running." The little brother got up and took the
But on the sixth day, hunger made itself felt again, and gnawed him
taken, with some changes, accidental or intentional, "all generally for
The Dwarfs said, "Give us some of it."
But it came to pass one day, when the man was sitting by the waterside
Wills not as I'd have her will._"
them, and then he walked slowly back the way that he had come,
about to make some explanatory remark when her own words turned
light, until I am standing with both feet upon the ground."
"No, no, it was a hound. My God, can there be some truth in all
_Mercutio._ So ho!
imperfections and inconsistencies, if such they be, are in keeping with
He looked round him in surprise as he emerged into the clear,
10. _Ah me!_ See on _Ay me!_ ii. 1. 10 above. It may be a misprint for
And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
guests to carry food and drink--with other worse things,
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;                             90
itself has been followed. The very long sentences have been subdivided.
the world that one can wish for.
64. _Love._ Delius says that this "is of course ironical," but the
[Picture: New London Bridge]
away before them. They followed it until they reached a little house,
[Picture: The Dancing Bear and Dogs]
from the picture. I have not heard him laugh often, and it has
as a savage bear until I was freed by his death. Now he has got his
77.  Little Boy at the Crossing.
It was in this apartment, also, that there stood against the western
terrible, and not a little of that which might have excited disgust.
themselves wonderfully, or the house will be yours."
of indifference." Cf. i. 5. 124: "We have a trifling foolish banquet
before scattered peas in every other street. And again the Princess was
There the sooty miners stay,
the water?"
left out food for him last, and that was three days ago."
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
On my arm, so tann'd and brown,
presence would have warned our very formidable opponents to be on
"No, sir, but it might very well come from someone who was
countenances.  Where money is, there the crowd will be; and persons who
and closed his eyes, with an air of resignation. Dr. Mortimer
Then the Wild Man said, "It lies under your mother's pillow. You can
(cf. v. 1. 4: "all this day," which indicates the time), and Romeo at
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
time, and accused the Queen, who did not utter one word of defense, the
husband discuss the problem on several occasions. There were
"Man, man!" she cried. "Can you not tell when a warning is for
_Enter_ JULIET
of a merchant to bring over these things for our use, and for which we
prevail against us."
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
_Romeo._ Bid a sick man in sadness make his will;
bandying of their favourites." For the literal sense, see on ii. 5. 14
sole of it is worn the jest may remain after the wearing
itself." But _chariot_ here, as the description shows, means only the
upon the snow. And the red looked pretty upon the white snow, and she
out-house at Merripit, but it was always a risk, and it was only
MAID MALEEN
which would otherwise rust in its sheath, as rusting in her heart," is
Queen of being a man-eater. The King would not believe it, and would
head was struck off without mercy. Many others came after this and
surveyed the moor out of our window."
_Nurse._ I am aweary, give me leave awhile.
morning, had spun all the straw into glittering gold.
comes a man out of the forest, who has a wonderful treasure in his
him. And when it was done, no King could have looked more handsome.
To make me die with a restorative.                 [_Kisses him._
"_Thou hast eaten with us,
law-stationers, in and about the Temple: for as they use many pens, a
_Paris._ My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
him to carry the food to the royal table, but as he did not like to
affair. You are aware, perhaps, that a close intimacy exists
_First Citizen_. Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down! 70
restrained. Behind them followed a great troop of soldiers entirely
And when, in obedience to the Old Man's orders, she had made ready some
he saw three fishes come swimming toward him. They were the very
61. _Confusion's._ Here, the word is = ruin, death; but in the next line
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
you, Three-Eyes."
A square balustraded gallery ran round the top of the old hall,
must be delayed. Juliet knows that it involves no base suggestion, and a
interest. A child! Barrymore had said that our unknown was
36. _Life, living._ There is no necessity for emendation, as some have
the sun soon after rises. But if it crows by broad daylight, then take
Stooping at the crystal brook,
56-58. _Your love_, etc. Printed as prose by the Cambridge editors,
weary and starving, with the warders hard at his heels, what
clambered, like a squirrel, so nimbly between the branches, that the
But, soft! what day is this?
"It is engender'd in the eyes,
this very day."
air. His grey clothes and jerky, zigzag, irregular progress made
Then she fell into a rage, and her hair flew wildly about her head, and
At last they came to a very little hut, and she said, "Oh, goodness!
the Old Woman's little house, and were going to it.
taking of Guy Fawkes, in the reign of King James the First.  In the year
and Tybalt were talking. This is the first and the last glimpse that we
"We must send for help, Holmes! We cannot carry him all the way
"Listen! Tell your father that I would like to marry him. Then you
Once she said to him, "Go and mow my meadow, and dry the grass," and
to steal my Singing, Soaring Lark," he cried, "will I devour."
various other tradesmen in London, are much benefited by it; and in the
hard as the boy, and seems to do it with quite as much ease.
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
C.C.H.," was engraved upon it, with the date "1884." It was just
moments when I have thought of the Stapletons. They live miles
reasons. Thus we find both _revenue_ and _revenue_ in the first scene of
SCENE IV. _Hall in Capulet's House_
"These vaults," he said, "are extensive."
42. _Sir-reverence._ A contraction of "save reverence" (_salva
132. _Like powder_, etc. See on ii. 6. 10 above. Steevens remarks: "The
recognized the beautiful maiden who had danced with him, and cried,
Take fiftie crownes of gold (quoth he) I geue them thee.
as much of our experience as it seemed desirable that he should
use for a beard save to conceal his features. Come in here,
i. 3. 36:
"Is he safe?" she asked. "Has he escaped?"
"He appears to be a very consistent character. And then you heard
_Sampson._ Fear me not.
Make haste, I say.                                     [_Exeunt._
doing that as well. I came to you, Mr. Holmes, because I
1st folio; the later folios have "settle," which may be what S. wrote.
this place at all costs! Hush, my brother is coming! Not a word
"O, may we soon again renew that song,
It is true that I have had only the one glance at him, and yet
The daughter also was close by; so they carried the weak Queen into the
Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door--
broke off a branch with beautiful silver leaves and golden fruit, and
shoe was too small for her.
Goose sitting in the roots, with feathers of pure gold. He lifted her
and already my thoughts began to turn towards the Stapletons.
_Romeo._ Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.                       60
her, and wept three days long.
[_Snatching Romeo's dagger._
198. _Sweet my mother._ Cf. iii. 2. 98: "Ah, poor my lord," etc.
"I will take good care," answered the fisherman, and threw the fish
violently that without thinking he put it in the water. He drew it
THE WOLF AND THE SEVEN LITTLE KIDS
that I am a coward, Watson, but that sound seemed to freeze my
The maiden went through the back-door into the garden, and called, "You
Let us hope they will take this poor boy to one of these places, and
body.  Neither of these tradesmen keep long in one place.  The news-boy
the trumpet to his lips, and blew out his cheeks as much as he possibly
her finger. Then she threw her shuttle into the well, and jumped in
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw                            40
"Ah, Wife," said the man, "why should we be King? I do not want to be
"In few vnfained woords your hidden mynd vnfolde,
and when they had cried that, the two came flying down and placed
stone.
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
is a view of it, and of the Tender, which is an old man-of-war, riding at
ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at
they should look for their missing man, but it is hard lines that
115. _Better temper'd._ Of better temper or quality. Cf. _2 Hen. IV._ i.
go home, having abandoned the hopeless chase. The moon was low
As ever you desire.
"Oh, where am I?" she cried.
To hear good counsel; O, what learning is!--                     160
At twelve o'clock Barrymore, finding the hall door still
Hall on the advice of Dr. Mortimer, with whose opinion he himself
heard of the hound ever since I was in the nursery. It's the pet
In the evening, when he came home and heard that he had a son, he was
as keen as possible to see the moor."
but at last he thought, "Of what use is all my gold to me if I stay at
out his cloth, and brought the ass into the room. "Now watch," said he,
11. _Am I_, etc. "The quietness of this retort, with the slight but
it was forced from her? Why should she have been so reticent at
I would adventure for such merchandise.
Only this and nothing more."
"I am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of your conclusions were
"Ah, my Beloved," was her answer, "over yonder lies the Garnet
33. _Validity._ Value, worth. Cf. _A.W._ v. 3. 192:--
colourless man, with his straw hat and his butterfly-net, I
139. _Fortune's fool._ Made a fool of by fortune, the sport of fortune.
three kingdoms, he came one evening to a wood, and lay down under a
quickly that I could not pull out my beautiful white beard. So now it
Renewd with nouel mone the dolours of his hart,
are the first things to which the attention of those who are to witness
single blow with his paw, and he did not move again.
and looking very grave. "I beg, Sir Henry, that you will not go
"I see well enough," said the Witch, "that you can do no more to-day.
means limited to this single Baskerville affair. It is suggestive
He was discharged quyte, and no marke of defame
guilty of it to be boiled to death.
"What do you desire?" asked he.
And she sat down again in the field and began to comb out her hair.
the guests.
Strike at thy life."
while her mother is about twenty-eight (see i. 3. 50), and must have
"Well," said Hans, "if she is not really wise, I won't have her."
rising moon could light up "the severing clouds" in the way described.
the readers do brynge with them lyke good myndes, to consider it, which
lying in the inn, and I will give you a ducat for doing it."
"Yes," said he, "people may easily find a Little Table which will cover
_Juliet._ Nurse?
We moved cautiously along the track as if we were bound for the
huntsman.
"A moderate walk along this moor-path brings us to Merripit
seven children, six boys and a girl, whom he loved better than anything
"What is it?" asked the King.
Holmes is interesting himself in the matter, and I am naturally
said, "even a light tailor such as you are would break my back in
Aside from this little slip, the time is the Italian summer from first
upon him. It rained still harder and harder, till at last it came down
That Brooke was a Puritan we may infer from the religious character of
then, from the morning which followed our abortive chase of the
celebrate our wedding."
as you told it to us."
the stable in which the Golden Horse was standing, but just as he was
obtained by servitude or birth-right; and freemen only can work as
could be. Then she saw the boy, and cried to him, "Boy, bring me a
cell, roach, or vault, and in no open space, lest passengers (belike)
the tomb; and he quotes Rogers, _Italy_:--
Mrs. Barrymore is of interest to me. She is a heavy, solid
name."
where the Golden Bird is to be found, let the maiden get down, and I
Look to 't, think on 't, I do not use to jest.
have been in some ways of an eccentric habit of mind. In
dead), etc.
an insipid retelling of the stories.
should really be outside the ordinary laws of nature. A spectral
And the Brothers explained, in their preface, that they had planned the
"Alas, Flounder," said he, "my wife wants to be Emperor."
273. _In post._ In haste, or "post-haste." Cf. v. 1. 21 above. We find
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
shall not know what it is to have another happy hour, unless I can make
And she nursed the child as she was wont to do before she disappeared.
him for her husband, and she saw that he was young and handsome, she
have been a doctor. So he remained standing a while, and at length
When it was noon, Grethel shared her piece of bread with Haensel,
"Hum! Someone seems to be very deeply interested in your
"Receiue this vyoll small and keepe it as thine eye;
[Illustration]
"There lies our problem. There are indications that the man was
library, and I took the chance to ask him a few questions.
that she had no peace day or night. She called a huntsman, and said,
heare" (hair)--but _this_ poem, he says, is "the eldest of them" and his
Then she answered, "It seems so to me too. I fancy I hear the noise of
bathroom, and put her into the bath. Then they shut the door and ran
fingers dug into the ground, and his features convulsed with some
Heart's ease'; O, an you will have me live, play
etc. _Bills_ were the pikes or halberds formerly carried by the English
shone in her face.
in pursuit. Already our man had gone round the gallery and the
And make him chase it here and there,
being forwarded instantly from Baker Street to Coombe Tracey.
Was formerly the residence of the Dukes of Montague: it is now the
doctor was sitting at table, and when the peasant saw how daintily he
to the Lord King through the air."
But most especially to _Household Tales_, with the Author's notes,
others_
39. _Good den._ See on i. 2. 57 above.
143. _Jacks._ For the contemptuous use of the word, cf. _M. of V._ iii.
Thys token which the _Mountacutes_ did beare alwaies, for that
Come Pentecost as quickly as it will,
the bird escaped.  Then, as it would seem, he became as one
asked Crab if he were Doctor Knowall?
53. _I have an ill-divining soul._ "This miserable prescience of
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
on, she lay down in one of them without waiting any longer for the Old
To press before thy father to a grave?
Privateer, hazarding his life for a golden chain, or a broken limb.  And
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!"
"Keep thy hands in thy muff and warm the idle
crack?"
victim to his death, what peasant would venture to inquire too
standing on the threshold, and the maiden was about to relate what had
syllable. Cf. _Ham._ iii. 2. 221, etc. For the verb, see on i. 5. 87
'Heart's ease.'
21 the 1st, 2d, and 3d folios read: "our heads are some browne, some
she quickened her pace towards me. I had raised my hat and was
that during the last three years there have been four
the cool fountain, and when she was dull she took a golden ball, and
delusion, Holmes. I assure you that I have never in my life seen
there sat the poor miller's daughter, and for her life could not tell
swear to that man's face within the cab?"
carrying the dish into his room. When he had carefully locked the door,
just like the apprentice's. And he brought it out quite softly, and
King's heart was touched, and he was smitten with a great love for her.
Stirring as I went along;
_Nurse._ O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
roast and boiled meats. Only be firm; for your life's sake don't reveal
jester, to King Henry the First.  Grown weary of the gay offices of his
but ugly as night. "Good Mother," said she to the Old Woman, "has
steal my rampion like a thief? You shall suffer for it!"
meanings, cf. _A.Y.L._ iii. 2. 364.
I put that at 1730."
It was not long before there was a movement in the depths, a wave rose,
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife.               40
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy
order, though with a different application."
"So that to reach the yew alley one either has to come down it
1575: "Therefore they did tye some dogge or other lyving beast unto the
the rocks, in the crevice of which the candle burned, there was
At City Scenes, and London gay,
will wish for nothing more."
_Capulet._ O brother Montague, give me thy hand;
of the oven and garnish it with pretie conceipts, as birdes and beasts
_Juliet._ What villain, madam?
was left, and ate as if they were going to fast for a month.
_Capulet._ What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
to drive them back again to him. And when they came, he gave them some
_Fri._ Come, wantons, come, the stealing hours do pass,
pursue it. But hardly had the dog run two steps when he stood before a
will never let her do a good turn to any one?"
The youth thought that she said, "Most certainly not! Most certainly
Then in the distance she perceived a light which glimmered between the
"Why so?"
She was lying in a vast hall, and everything around her shone with
a musical instrument); as in _W.T._ iv. 4. 844: "but though my case be a
hillside yonder. What do you make of those?"
midst of the housen?  Oh! St. Paul's: why that beats our parish church
interest. I wish that he were here.
room until the iron became red-hot. This the cook did, and the six who
As, however, Ash-Maiden went on asking, the mother at last said, "I
Grew bountiful to all."
_Romeo._ What less than doomsday is the prince's doom?
may have deserved one could not allow her to go hopelessly to the
The bad into the crop!_"
shoulders as well as he.
other, she began to laugh very loudly as if she would never leave off.
What, with a torch!--muffle me, night, awhile.
_Benvolio._ Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
place a swan's wing on his shoulder.
least, to what she has just learned (i. 3) of the plan to marry her to
There was great astonishment over the Wild Man. The King had him put
Bride whom I have chosen for you, and whom you must lead to church."
lowered, if Shakespeare had placed her in connection with any
Watson. Say nothing of the hound to Sir Henry. Let him think that
"Halloa!" cried Dr. Mortimer, "what is this?"
_Peter._ Anon!
handsome that all were amazed.
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
Guerber's _Myths of Greece and Rome_ (for young students who may need
a terrific clap of thunder, a fragment of earth in the middle of the
"You say it was large?"
which have puzzled us?"
should have been written?"
equipped in iron, and their swords flashed in the sun. The youth made
continues three days, to the great annoyance of real trade and decorum;
"unless the fiddler Apollo get his sinews to make catlings on."
IV._ iii. 1. 210:--
his passion for Juliet." Mrs. Jameson says: "Our impression of Juliet's
Here, upon his brazen horse,
When the girl was alone the Little Man came again for the third time,
first instance deny having written to Sir Charles upon that
"Well, it cannot be far if Barrymore had to carry out the food to
"'_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, I pray,
his consent; and, if he takes change, to see well that the silver be
only here.
so swathed and muffled in the sheets which had been used to
And soon after that
if he would rescue the beautiful Princess from the Golden Castle.
eye piercing a century, shows us the fire of faded chivalry expiring in
the unknown will come to it."
"It was imprudent, all the same," said Holmes, shaking his head
The History of the Play                                    9
tended and cherished, and ran about in the palace-garden.
rains and looked at the gaping roof I understood how strong and
were to be found, and let her eat and run about there. At night, when
THE FISHERMAN AND HIS WIFE                                        41
gift.
"I picked her up on my way for a companion. Give the girl something to
A._ 1138: "sweet beginning, but unsavoury end." Schmidt, who rarely
The fog-bank lay like white wool against the window. Holmes held
was nothing to be done. Every place had cats, and there were so many of
Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
What doth her beauty serve but as a note
105. _God ye good morrow._ That is, God give ye, etc. For _good den_,
and monosyllables otherwise emphasized are similarly lengthened; also
sons in joy and splendor.
would have difficulty in getting anything.
_uncovered_ (which is not mentioned by Paynter), S. found particularly
122. _These are news._ See on 105 above.
mark of the waning year. Yellow leaves carpeted the lanes and
"Most certainly. Keep your revolver near you night and day, and
parcels.
Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child beneath the sun. When she
See on ii. 4. 44 above. We have the word used literally in _Much Ado_,
snow, as red as blood, and her hair was as black as ebony.
I cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
"But it is quite a town. When was it inhabited?"
into close consideration, and at length swallowed it down.
ACT IV
Thou hast amaz'd me; by my holy order,
"And you have no idea who L. L. is?"
great cupboard, just unlock it."
monument of the piety of its founder, -- Rahere, who was minstrel, or
97. _Gear._ Matter, business. Cf. _T. and C._ i. 1. 6: "Will this gear
Bird-Found said, "Neither now, nor ever, will I leave you."
through the window the white feathers of the Prince, whom the spindle
"Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee--by these angels he hath sent thee
"How do you know this, Barrymore?"
excursion; for a walk, and a draught of new milk, must contribute greatly
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
But the eldest said, "It is a gun fired for joy, because we have got
she was wearing and a little bit of bread in her hand which some
ado._ Cf. _T.G. of V._ iv. 4. 31, _1 Hen. IV._ ii. 4. 223, _Hen. VIII._
have held out upon the moor during all that time. Of course, so
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
I have toil'd with patient care,
have you been doing? I thought that you were in Baker Street
Seated in companies they sit, with radiance all their own!
to meet it. He would withdraw all opposition upon his part if I
Then the old King looked out of the window and saw her standing in
Now, our limbs and eye-sight gone,
money, and begged that she might once again sleep in the Bridegroom's
received the King as if she had been expecting him. He saw that she was
to accept this view, but on second thought was compelled to admit that I
Next morning, the joiner paid for his bed, took up his table, never
days.
Which Theseus, or Paris would haue chosen to their rape.
One of Sherlock Holmes's defects--if, indeed, one may call it a
the late Sir Charles Baskerville," said he. "My friend here, Dr.
paintings, presented to the City of London by the late worthy Alderman
had flung it open, and the cold night wind beat in upon our
other lame. So she ordered her servants to bring the seventh horse.
risk his life alone upon the moor in the face of all my
_Nurse._ Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.    [_Exeunt._
Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries,
evidence, near _The Rape of Lucrece_; portions may be earlier in date;
from visitors. One pays twenty-five centesimi (five cents) for the
picked them out again in two hours, you shall go with us."
Holmes leaned back in his chair, placed his finger-tips together,
been married when she was half that age. Her assertion that Juliet was
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone,
216. _Starv'd._ The early eds. (except the 4th folio) have "sterv'd,"
the second said, "Well, I will go forth and see whether I cannot get
And pay no worship to the garish sun.--
Then she stepped to the window, opened it, and said, "It is so warm in
To kill the strongest man aliue; such is the poysons power."
Then he mounted his Golden Horse, and rode forth and entered the great
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
was but a kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better
colour with the murky grey of the sepulchral vault and the darkness of
approached the body, black and clear against the silvered stones.
kneeling, had shouldered his gun, and was about to fire. The master
Then said the King, "That which you have promised you must perform. Go
Unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you.--
"No, there!"
_Benvolio._                      What, art thou hurt?
his death gave us a shock and made these surroundings very
kitchen.
other refused to accept them. The lady stood by in haughty
had nursed and played with as an elder sister would. That was why
"I have the pleasure," said I, "of knowing your father."
With this night's revels, and expire the term
"For whom I am becomme vnto my selfe a foe,
until I had an opportunity of seeing something of the stranger.
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
"With a wood round it?"
trivial;" _J.C._ iv. 3. 8: "every nice offence," etc. See also v. 2. 18
use of _stand on_ or _upon_ = it concerns, it is important to; as in
doing so late in the midst of the great forest?"
intransitively. _Languish_ occurs again as a noun in _A. and C._ v. 2.
they could see into the room.
intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then eat her, too.
Holmes, glancing keenly across at our visitor.
One day in summer when he was working alone in the garden, the day was
eagerness to the fruition of the "tender wishes blossoming at night"
"What!" said the woman; "go at once, the Flounder can always do that."
Baskerville had consulted me, spotted who I was in Regent Street,
the little birds are singing. You walk gravely along as if you were
you turned the case over in your mind?"
are past compare. He is not the flower of courtesy,
Bird. The Fox met him as he had met the eldest, and gave him the good
one more dish. It was covered and even the servant did not know what
the wedding at all, but she had no peace, and must go to see the young
See the cut on p. 136, and cf. Brooke, who refers to the Italian custom
looking round at them and without speaking to them, she went awkwardly
The tailor told him what the King had required of him, and how he could
With my face and hands clean in the streets to be seen,
He did not go near her, but said, "I will shoot you, if you do not
the extremity of the velvet apartment, turned suddenly and confronted
rests."
opportunities without it; and as nothing is to be got by standing still,
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet.
thing of the kind in Europe.
"Ah cruell murthering tong, murthrer of others fame:
_Romeo._ I would I were thy bird.
_The Old Witch_
in mine," said he. "I observe from your forefinger that you make
"Where are your brothers?" asked the King.
_Romeo._ Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
Well, here is the Bellman and Crier, calling the attention of the people
the door sprang open. There in a little room sat an Old Woman with a
And earn a few halfpence, whenever you can.
"And the dog?"
'your,' 'life,' 'reason,' 'value,' 'keep away,' 'from the.' Don't
Hans comes to Grethel. "Good day, Grethel."
[Picture: Southwark Bridge]
And envy and pride grew higher and higher in her heart like a weed, so
making so brilliant a marriage. Yet I am certain that he does not
prison. The next morning he was sentenced by the court to death; but
_Lady Capulet._ Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death
what good it may do you?"
all.
round over the mountain, and it was so light that one could have found
had taken the beautiful dress to the bird on the little hazel-tree, and
this, how many would regain their sight who do not believe that to be
starlit night. Then he came swiftly along the path, passed close
Once there was a miller who was poor, but who had a beautiful daughter.
Dyce says it was often so used by writers of the time.
faces. Far away in the black distance there still glowed that one
"I certainly wrote to him once or twice to acknowledge his
"complement" or "complements," as in ii. 4. 19 below and elsewhere.
Watson. Oh, excuse me an instant! It is surely Cyclopides."
her eyes, but pearls and jewels only.
Queen knew nothing about her.
Holinshed, Stanihurst, and other old writers.
The Capilets her corps in such a one dyd lay
be there."
In his madness he ran into the forest and must have died there of
Just then the moon was obscured by a dark cloud, and in an instant the
"I will tell you, then. If you have heard anything of my unhappy
still, for I saw him as I dressed, coming up the drive.
of a light upon a pitch-dark night, and sometimes the glimmer
alone is admitted; when, being conducted to the Lord Mayor, he shows the
Dr. Mortimer refolded his paper and replaced it in his pocket.
THE CITTY ROVND,
white froth, went past with trailing bridle and empty
That felt such great and bitter smart,
buildings that probably formed the main part of the mansion, but are now
Hans says, "Good-bye, Grethel."
time to visit you," etc.
commenting on _Rich. II._, remarks: "Had Shakespeare written the play a
with her contending tears;" _K. John_, iii. 1. 17: "With my vex'd
courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy hammers and
47.  The News Boy and Flying Pieman.
_Friar Laurence._ That's my good son; but where
"_Little green Waiting-Maid,
When it was past midnight, the robbers saw from afar that the light was
Tune a deploring dump," etc.
fastened I made a close inspection for the water-mark. In doing
thickly upon the slopes of the hills. Nowhere was there any trace
Shall be lifted--nevermore!
opened into a broad space in which stood two of those great
I have gold and silver in abundance."
dirty.  When the cart is well laden, he empties it into some waste place
flesh, flesh, how art thou fishified! Now is he for the
strange thing is that they should have lived so thickly on what
"His sister is everything in his life, he says. That is natural
could recognize him, he went down into the courtyard, and said,
Then they put the coffin out upon the mountain, and one of them always
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
administration, in _Temp._ i. 2. 70: "the manage of my state;" _M. of
O, this same thought did but forerun my need,
side and grey shadow on the other. A haze lay low upon the
this scene: "Women are deeply in debt to Shakespeare for all the lovely
he had a good conscience, he lay down quietly in his bed, commended
all this, and observed it well.
But love thee better than thou canst devise
the mischief, the wicked Hugo, who started the Hound of the
_Paris._ Do not deny to him that you love me.
I
called the man's daughter and said, "Here, put on this dress and go out
below.
Don't be frighten'd, young lady, to look at the lion,
"It does not please me," said the fiddler, "to hear you always wishing
old, dry well, into which my light has fallen. It burns blue, and never
Now, it so happened one day, the King's Daughter's golden ball did not
Little Red-Cap, however, had been running about picking flowers. When
with the cramp, when he had been a few minutes in the water, and began to
the number) may prove to be,--one in number, though one is no number.
_Nurse._ Your lady mother is coming to your chamber.
creature upon the moor." He spoke with a smile, but I seemed to
See also v. 3. 116 below.
national museum for every kind of curiosity.  Indeed, they are so
"_I am King! I am King!_"
people knew nothing about cocks, and did not even understand how to
followed us down here? Could he--could he be the stranger whom I
Collier's _Shakespeare's Library_ (and Hazlitt's revised ed. of the
she asked him pitifully, and with tears, to be allowed to take leave of
years, every one of these active merchants will be as motionless as this
the poor girl's shoulder, and gave her an axe in order that she might
hanging there, and watched.
THE BLUE LIGHT                                                   260
"She needs nothing," said the Old Woman. "I give her the tears that she
through which passed the road to the capital. Two foot-paths, however,
outside, and will never be seen again by me."
Till that from earth to heaven his heavenly sprite dyd flye:
and a small Toad came along and opened the door to her.
Then, as the manner of our country is,
bounding from tuft to tuft behind it, his green net waving in the
the Flounder, and tell him to give us a castle."
dressing-gown coiled up in an armchair with his black clay pipe
the cage into a room in the castle. She had about seven thousand cages
youth saw the King's Daughter he was so overcome by her great beauty,
or in the hot-house and green-house: and, what with the number of busy
be the better for it! Only you must take care to make my bed well, and
prim-faced man, flaxen-haired and lean-jawed, between thirty and
a pretty cottage. She went up to it and opened the door. There sat an
Disdayneth me, his steadfast frend, and scornes my frendship so;"
And not impute this yielding to light love,
evident that he hailed the adventure as a relief to his somewhat
Blow Conrad's little hat away,
letter and it said: 'Please, please, as you are a gentleman, burn
edge.
and as I was sitting up late I was able to reach Baskerville Hall
Mortimer had stayed to dinner, and he and the baronet played
I am provided of a torch-bearre."
reached me this morning."
said she was not the true one, and that the other sister was to put the
the well, as soon as he saw her, cried out:
Then her envious heart had rest, so far as an envious heart can have
corridors extended the whole length of the building, from which
impatience, to use her own expression, is truly that of 'a child before
friend of Sir Charles's. He was exceedingly kind, and it was
ghost once and forever."
127. _Who._ Him who; the antecedent omitted, as often when it is easily
hazel-tree, two little pigeons sat on it, and cried:
"What have you brought back with you from your travels?"
moor-gate."
curtain, but he made it a field for monarchs. That law of unity which
troubled, and walked the whole day, until in the evening he entered a
commenced in 1811, and completed in 1817.  The road-way of the bridge is
one said in a pitiful tone, "Something lies heavy on my stomach; as
these fruitless quests that he, or rather his ally, was seen by
devoted to entomology the identification was complete."
keep to myself; but first let me tell ye, if ye should
I took from their sconces two flambeaux, and giving one to Fortunato,
_Capulet._ Ready to go, but never to return.--                    30
water for the baptism. The other six boys ran along with him. And as
"What are you saying?" asked the King's Son.
"He told me that it would hurt his self-respect that any other
which enabled him to burst upon us at such short notice. We
_Romeo._ Why, such is love's transgression.
at the very thought. It might not even now be too late to
makes a long speech, but the old man utters not a word:--
myself and see where Elsie is."
that is, you are more inclined to depreciate her than she to scant her
I do beseech thee--
ROMEO AND JULIET _DRAMATIS PERSONAE_
distant cousins. James Desmond is an elderly clergyman in
observed. I think that I am fairly justified in my inferences. As
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
and velvet. She laid herself therein, in God's name, and slept.
_Enter_ NURSE _and_ PETER
Mortimer."
Or underneath the oak so grey,
"You don't mind my driving straight home, Sir Henry?" said Dr.
care of the house, and every morning laid a wreath of flowers by her
_Benvolio._ Nay, he will answer the letter's master,
was a fine sweet cake, and the sour beer had become good wine.
"Well, then, tonight?"
loud."
5(28); v. 3(10). Whole no. 269.
[Picture: Little boy at the crossing]
and I will say no more. I must go back, or he will miss me and
favourite corner of the settee. "There are certainly one or two
I could not do this if I were with you, since he would be keenly
roasted."
know how very rich he was until we came to examine his
purpose I must now devote all my energies.
109. As Malone remarks, kissing in a public assembly was not then
And young affection gapes to be his heir;
sure whether I had left it here or in the Shipping Office. I
45. _O woe!_ White thinks that in "this speech of mock heroic woe" S.
We heard the steps of our visitors descend the stair and the bang
Wills not as I'd have her will._"
danger.
"Come," said Hans, "more understanding than that is not needed for my
One day, he came and said, "To-morrow there is a feast in your father's
Henceforth the Bear came every evening at the same time, laid himself
a state, and the combination of the two must be quite rare. But
Wills not as I'd have her will._"
contracted from "God's wounds!" and generally omitted or changed in the
"Ay me!" here.
second." This servant was so frightened, that he got out.
A secret and assured frend unto the Montegue."
horse and took the false Bride home again. "This also is not the right
"The exact date is 1742." Dr. Mortimer drew it from his
'Twould surely break her heart in two!_"
has escaped from me, and I believe she has climbed up the pear-tree."
before he was made a saint, was well skilled in many arts: he was a good
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
"He hailed me at half-past nine in Trafalgar Square. He said that
doctored people a while, but not long, a rich and great lord had some
I protest unto thee--
every corner. The doors sprang open, and beat against the walls. The
PREFACE
Then the seven Kids dragged the stones thither with all speed, and put
46. _One fire_, etc. Alluding to the old proverb that "fire drives out
could discern no others."
For that before thy kindly howre I forced thee to dye.
up the millet long before, and the girl could not find the track. Then
14. _Moody._ Angry. Cf. _2 Hen. IV._ iv. 4. 39: "But, being moody, give
"He is very well, thank you."
In the evening they came to a large forest, and they were so weary with
Sister, let me in." Then the door was opened for him, and he jumped in,
dangerous thing for you, for if it is discovered, you will fare ill."
upon the moor when it was necessary to be near the scene of
"philosophically true," cites _R. of L._ 1226: "But as the earth doth
to the spring.
have had the opportunity of playing his own game upon himself and
"Bear, you are really pulling a very pitiful face. What has become of
fearlessly out into the forest. The Lion, however, was an enchanted
Euen as a Lyon would emong the lambes be bolde:
beauties of Costa Rica, and, having purloined a considerable sum
With that they ate something and went to bed.
little charm:
asked leave to speak with Sir Henry, and they were closeted in
sellers of stock, or those who are engaged in transferring it, all so
"No, no, that was a living voice."
SCENE II.--1. _He jests_, etc. Referring to Mercutio, whom he has
trouble you then to be ready in half an hour, and we can stop at
They danced there till three o'clock in the morning, when all the shoes
as a bait. We did so, and at the cost of a severe shock to our
"You have saved my life."
I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
[Footnote 5: That is, whisper. Cf. _W.T._ i. 2. 217, _K. John_, ii. 1.
suddenly against him. She had learned something of the death of
sake he has done all that he has."
seems to say the opposite of what he evidently means, and various
was celebrated.
necklaces; and many other sentimental ladies followed the royal example
day's work is ended.  I would rather find employment for the men, than
_1 Watch._ Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
come to pass, and how he had managed to secure it.
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
The King took the lovely maiden upon his horse and carried her to his
come. Then the woman said to the servant, "Just go down into the cellar
[Footnote 6: At the meeting of the new Shakspere Society, Oct. 11, 1878,
"Well, sir, I thought no more of the matter, and never would have
With finger wet with morning dew,
a town hospital to a country practice. Is it, then, stretching
House of Commons under Pitt."
all together, and willingly gave him what he had asked.
thought, "I could easily find use for such a cook as that in my
back into the castle, and found therein everything he needed.
let him out of my sight. To act the spy upon a friend was a
the Boy_ (1896; treating of the home and school life, the games and
Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,
showed where the animal had been confined. A skeleton with a
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
and did not venture to stir again. The King was terrified; he threw
very unusual stoppage at the extremity of the Thames water-pipe there,
footsteps in the mire, for the rising mud oozed swiftly in upon
relied on God and on his luck.
his face seemed to be rigid with expectation as he stared out
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
When she went in and said good-evening, a piece of gold at once fell
exercise any small powers which I possess at your expense. A
SOME BOOKS FOR TEACHERS AND STUDENTS.--A few out of the many books that
general who is planning a battle with his chief of the staff."
The day is broke; be wary, look about.                   [_Exit._
crowned.
_Juliet._ Who is 't that calls? is it my lady mother?
is not in Brooke's poem.
_Romeo._ Thou wast never with me for any thing
front of us. The steps grew louder, and through the fog, as
_Balthasar._ It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
He knocked at the window, the miller put out his head, and asked what
Who, even in pure and vestal modesty,
Ado_, v. 3. 27 is = "bright blue," and Dyce defines it as "blue, azure";
an exclamation of joy. "I am so very glad," said he. "I was not
"Yes," Said She, "Now I Am Emperor"                               48
O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
"By the way, Mortimer," said I as we jolted along the rough road,
good deal since the days when they had first worked together. I
In what vile part of this anatomy
don't mean to say that you came after me in spite of all?"
The fiery Tybalt with his sword prepar'd,
Dragon. Will you, then, forget me?"
"I will not bias your mind by suggesting theories or suspicions,
this crying upon the moor. Suppose that there were really some
And lead you even to death. Meantime forbear,                  220
rode for dear life, still screaming, across the moor.  One,
The councilors said, "We would rather be plagued with mice to which
"Well, you know what my instructions are. I am sorry to intrude,
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
posting the preceding evening.
Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen.--
THE DONKEY CABBAGES                                              276
about Sir Henry."
The sisters cried, "You, indeed, with your two eyes! What can you do?"
it and watered it.
out our luggage. It was a sweet, simple country spot, but I was
_Romeo._ Tut, I have lost myself, I am not here;
_Romeo._ Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,
go to the Bank should be careful lest their pockets be picked of such
of the front door. In an instant Holmes had changed from the
away from a place which has always been fatal to his family. The
"My father is a mighty King, and gold have I in plenty as much as I
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
"You make too much of it, Dr. Watson," said she. "My brother and
toward her. Then she saw that her deliverance was near, and her heart
been known to Shakespeare, though we have no reason to suppose that he
Stand up, stand up; stand, an you be a man.
I'll pledge you a mile to the bottom."
And hire those horses. I'll be with thee straight.--
9.  The Coal-ship and Barge.
and soul to the Powers of Evil if he might but overtake the
threatens to go to the point of violating the law of God and man that he
sorrow and hunger and the long walk, that they lay down in a hollow
There was a poor, good little girl, who lived alone with her mother,
And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
on his guard. I deceived everybody, therefore, yourself included,
15. _A white wench's black eye._ Cf. _L. L. L._ iii. 1. 108:--
"Apace our frier Iohn to Mantua him hyes;
32. _Grandsire._ Addressed to Benvolio in raillery of his staid
too hot." In Brooke's poem, where the action covers four or five months,
"Ah, unhappy girl that I am! If I had but taken King Thrushbeard!"
thought they were in Heaven.
On this the King was satisfied, and the other continued, "In fourteen
fine large town belong?"
grotesque, inconceivable nature of the device only served to make
between Juliet and her parents, and in the scenes with the Nurse, we
"No, it's this poisonous atmosphere."
eyes, I saw that a hansom cab with a man inside which had halted
III._ iv. 4. 424) and the place where it was kept.
if there is any answer." I held it as he had done, and stared out
we could both be absent at a moment which he himself declared to
_Friar Laurence._ Hence from Verona art thou banished;
It is too rash, too unadvis'd, too sudden,
decided to send a herald to the cat, and command her to leave the
lunching."
forest, if I had not come to an Iron Stove. But I have been forced to
day, and if we come near her, she kicks us away with her foot. Our
some features which are entirely its own. Even now we have no
92. _Suck'd the honey_, etc. Cf. _Ham._ iii. 1. 164: "That suck'd the
That while Verona by that name is known
i. 3. 57, _Cymb._ v. 5. 351, etc.
The tailor was a handsome little fellow who was always merry and full
_Friar Laurence._    Hold thy desperate hand!
6.  A lance, with the current coin on the head.
away the snow at the back door with it."
iii. 1. 190.
melancholy lay upon the countryside, which bore so clearly the
all men, and by reason of his pleasaunt and curteous behauior was in
When four weeks had gone by she was seized with impatience and would
"No, sir, indeed I have not. You saved my good name, and perhaps
So she took off her hood and gave it to him.
"Within the last few months it became increasingly plain to me
The miller said:
When they had had enough, the woman said, "But, Husband, whence come
editors as "The Garden," "Anti-room of Juliet's Chamber," "Loggia to
an elegant marble statue of George III. our late venerable monarch, are
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
there since, we find all his little arrangements exactly as he
revealed the fiery soul which his self-contained manner so
great care is taken to render the objects of the institution comfortable
the eldest always made her be silent.
all? Even the cuckoo came, and the hoopoe, his clerk, who is so called
of inexplicable incidents all within the limits of two days,
"Oho!" she answered, "who gives anything to a runaway soldier? Yet will
"It shall be found, sir--I promise you that if you will have a
no pains or expense to restore the grandeur of his family. When
When it was time for sleep, the guest stretched himself on the bench,
cocked the pistol in my pocket, determined not to discover myself
security were within.  Without was the "Red Death".
them, while he is asleep."
is sure to do it. Go at once."
commentator has noticed. Furness notes no reference to it, and I find
released me."
roote thereof wythe a corde, and digged the earth in compasse round
so deep. But we hold several threads in our hands, and the odds
story we find that her attention is first attracted towards Romeo by
boy pinched his fingers. When it was open, the Wild Man stepped out,
"She setteth foorth at large the fathers furious rage,
7. _Osier cage._ Basket. Dowden suggests that _of ours_ is "possibly not
"Do you see anything there?"
up. When they came to the great lake, they sailed across it, and when
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,                       250
of the hospital, since only a man well-established in a London
TYBALT, nephew to Lady Capulet.
Examine other beauties.
soon followed by Sir Henry and you. One word now as to how I
I'd leave off crying, old chairs to mend!
she let the hair down.
Many miles I'm forced to stray,
was entirely trivial and that his excitement had no
search of his master.  The day had been wet, and Sir
in their situations.  The hospital at Chelsea, with its appendages,
that to the fish. There is only one Emperor in the land. An Emperor,
Whom they sought with such tender regard!
neck."
behind her feet and then before them, and so got over it. And when
but lament and weep over the loss of his dearest wife.
me off? Where shall I go? I have no friends, and no home to which I
scarlet--a deep blood colour.  Now in no one of the seven apartments
1. 178, etc.) is one that is bruised, so that the blood runs, not one
the long, gloomy tunnel down which he fled. And from what? A
revising the play. The speaker is now in his cell, with its stone floor
They leave then where they did begin;
descend, and you will take me on your horse."
The soldier returned to the town from which he had come. He went to the
do."
the wood, and shall live as servants to a charcoal-burner, until they
without the consent of the next of kin because he dug up the
As is the bud bit with an envious worm
lost the drops of blood, she had become weak and powerless.
been a satisfactory case."
characteristics, that his chin should be as smooth and his linen
which some editors prefer. To me _rest_ seems both more poetical and
"In doing so," said Dr. Mortimer, who had begun to show signs of
26.  The Fire-engine.
and he was full of joy and gladness. He had as yet met no one, when he
"No mention of that local hunt, Watson," said Holmes with a
"  6. (Friday) End of Act V. sc. iii."
"Why are you weeping?" he asked.
worn But one to dance with"). Cf. _M.W._ ii. 1. 236: "with my long sword
"My banquet is to close our stomachs up,
Plac'd his pale colours (th' ensign of his might)
"I thought as much--and knowing your admirable tenacity I was
the morning, he found the Blood-Red Flower. In the middle of it, there
after its victim. He fell dead at the end of the alley from heart
For a few days, they lived in this way as well as might be, and ate up
castle. It was not long before the stork came flying thither and tapped
"You are no more your owne (deare frend) then I am yours
dark a cause? You don't believe it, do you, Watson?"
it into the field with her. When she came to the field she said to
seized her hand, took her upstairs with him, and married her.
marry her, but before she could answer, down came this brother of
palace.  It stood in Pall Mall, exactly opposite Waterloo Place.  This
read?
8. _Court-cupboard._ Sideboard. Steevens quotes Chapman, _Monsieur
_Enter_ CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, _and_ PARIS
Sherlock Holmes. "You have had him in your power and he knew it,
summer-house. Halfway down is the moor-gate, where the old
7. The _accent_ of words is also varied in many instances for metrical
beauty like bright daylight, but no word could be drawn from her. He
was the criminal?"
were thrown into the water she would not sink. King James, in his
quotes _The Return from Parnassus_, 1606: "Your proud university
horror was about to break from the heart of it. I was at Holmes's
And in the taste confounds the appetite.
mask of his face, were full of horror and astonishment as he
Italian _hai_ = thou hast it (not "he has it," as Schmidt and others
nature of the passions." He adds: "The necessity of loving creates an
like the low, constant murmur of the sea.
_Paris._ That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.             20
Italy, and other countries. Knight says: "There is no such law in our
were of silver. Then she took courage, and knocked at the door. The fat
trial, and can no longer stay here. Go forth into the world. There you
"I led her by the rope, tied her to the rack, and scattered some grass
"I'm very glad 'tis not my luck
O'er ladies' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
The baronet's face perceptibly lengthened.
the two--gaunt, savage, and as large as a small lioness. Even now
against Stapleton. Mrs. Stapleton knew that he had designs upon
_1st Servant_: i. 2(21), 3(5), 5(11); iv. 4(1). Whole no. 38.
perform the ceremony, and will understand that Juliet has anticipated
here writ, and can never find what names the writing
want to punish him."
constrained to pause, momentarily, in their performance, to harken to
No mishap overtook them. If they stayed too late in the forest, and
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
A King's Daughter, she sits within,
dollars for them--and had one stolen before ever I had them on my
64. _As violently_, etc. See on ii. 6. 9 above.
properly considered, a beauty in the drama, and adds a fresh stroke of
_1st Watchman_: v. 3(19). Whole no. 19.
already in love, or as fancying herself so; but no one, I believe, ever
rest, her husband must once more descend into the garden. In the gloom
hands upon that lady we should know more about Sir Charles's
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
the only other book (mentioned above) which he is known to have
Mountain, and three sharp swords, and a great lake before I found you,
Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
_Thorough._ Through. Cf. _M.N.D._ ii. 1. 3, 5, _W.T._ iii. 2. 172,
boards snapped and creaked beneath our tread. Sometimes it seemed
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
144. _Send me word to-morrow_, etc. This seems rather sudden at first
"Has Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"
we followed down Baker Street and along--"
at the ten-thirty train from Paddington."
same way I thought that I would overtake you and introduce
unjustifiable intrusion, and I promise you that I will not
S. uses _pastry_ only here. For the double meaning of the word, cf.
"Untill such time as noble Britomart
danger?"
or twenty-four hours earlier than the Friar had directed. He of course
How are we to feed our poor children, when we no longer have anything
It was several miles off, but I could distinctly see a small dark
the word in the only other instance in which S. uses it, _V. and A._
111. _Your houses!_ "The broken exclamation of a dying man, who has not
and the lace?"
him all that had happened, although the other brothers had threatened
_Benvolio._ By giving liberty unto thine eyes;
never relax your precautions."
traces of modern England behind you, but, on the other hand, you
"No harm was meant, take a drink, and swallow your anger down."
"But why keep me in the dark?"
after their geese till evening came.
_Friar Laurence._ Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
Witch.
suddenly confronted with a most serious and extraordinary
you from your travels?"
roasted them.
"Father, the best thing which I have brought back with me is this
Is a landing place by the side of a river, for the convenience of boats,
has now been so entirely cleared up that I am not aware that
It came to pass, that he reached the same public-house in which his
Madam, if you could find out but a man
Montacute_, 1575:--
the stall."
THE GOOSE-GIRL AT THE WELL                                       325
of V._, for instance, is in prose, because Portia and Nerissa are
his knees, that he hath almost lost the use of his legs." Cf. _2 Hen.
Wills not as I'd have her will._"
Makes citadels of curious fowl and fish.
quibble. Lines 45-51 evidently belong to the first draft of the play.
"He can't object to my worldly position, so it must be myself
episodes could be fitted. All afternoon and late into the evening
footprint amid all the footprints of the world. If you seriously
When he got there the sea was all green and yellow, and no longer
to the wharfs to unload; so the coals are emptied into barges, (which are
The King, who wished to keep his dear child from the misfortune,
meal daily, was dead; "the two others," he continued, "are certainly
them on the dish, and carried them to the maiden. "I bring you the
The unhappy tailor, who still wished to save his life, could not do it
would leave his hotel. Did the composer fear an interruption--and
is out whether we have caught our big, lean-jawed pike, or
As soon as the Dwarf felt himself free, he grabbed a bag which lay
unexplained. What became of the hound when its master was in
tragic consequences.
household."
At last, something rustled at the window, and two fiery eyes peered in.
14. _Hood my unmann'd blood_, etc. The terms are taken from falconry.
"If you examine it carefully you will see that both the pen and
"But what is it?"
She sees in that painting some fancied resemblance to her own position,
"You are not of the masons."
"You think that he was waiting for someone?"
beshrowe your heart, are you here?'" (Steevens).
1880); Elson's _Shakespeare in Music_ (1901).
he came to a large city. There was a great noise and crowd in the
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
_Juliet._                        Amen!
his head. He has rushed about the moor in a crazy state and
mock me when they saw me out of doors, I commanded the scullery-maid to
side."
presents several interesting alternatives. But the practical
done. When they had finished their scanty meal they went to bed; but he
here. Juliet is first the buyer and then the thing bought. She seems to
moor. That night he waited there. It was the night before he made
They all drove away together. When they came to the nobleman's castle,
Shakspere Society (edited by P.A. Daniel) in 1875. I have followed
else in the world. As he now feared that the new Queen might not treat
wicked deed. And as he feared that the girl also would be stolen from
have in mind that what she says of herself is equally true of Romeo. In
Then the Witch let her anger be softened, and said to him, "If the case
laughed, "he has a chin like a thrush's beak!" and from that time he
knots, to the great annoyance of the poor animals and vexation of their
disappeared behind a stone.
forest-castle.
negro and your Esquimau. The detection of types is one of the
The man slept well and soundly, for he had run about a great deal
Make haste, my good lad, or the postman may be gone.  These
less use than his brothers. But at last he let him go.
message from Stapleton asking me over there."
me. Her dry lips could not speak the "No" which I saw rather than
"Where does your Grandmother live, Little Red-Cap?"
133. _Consort._ Accompany. Cf. _C. of E._ i. 2. 28: "And afterward
outlying farmers sleep the better in consequence.
instead of the cut-out work, all together on the table, and then
leading articles?" He glanced swiftly over it, running his eyes
strength to pull it out. The fish kept the upper hand and was pulling
friends sat down to a long carouse, as was their nightly
the soldier seated himself by the youngest.
alert, his keen face bronzed by the sun and roughened by the
world before us."
Whose like ne hath, ne shalbe seene, ne liueth in our dayes.
pretended to coincide. He must act at once, or his victim might
cut farther, all six sprang out one after another, and were all still
this gateway, she said in passing:
on it for several years; and hundreds of fine oaks, which have been from
lived in one of these abandoned huts, and many hundreds of them
There was a long pause which showed that he had stopped. Then
[_Nurse calls within._
"Young Abraham Cupid" to be used "in derision of the eternal boyhood of
to it, for we were numb from our long drive. Then we gazed round
which said quite kindly, "Hans, where are you going?"
"Yes, father, I delivered it."
latter! It is to say that the earth owes to the sun only its verdure and
hospitality, Holmes and I set off to Baskerville Hall, leaving
"What shall we do now?" whispered Sir Henry.
one person; a common construction in S. Cf. _Rich. II._ iv. 1. 314:
"And I to your long life."
fell down.
about, but every one must take his burthen on his back."
"Then you must excuse yourself and he must go alone. That will be
parallel lines, and when we unite our results I expect we shall
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
O love! O life! not life, but love in death!
was at a deadlock.
continued in a low voice as we went upstairs together. "We know
Being in night, all this is but a dream,                         140
The second said, "My gift is, that gold pieces shall fall out of her
all dim and sombre in the subdued light of the central lamp.
After a couple of days, the miller came and said he must inform him
tonight."
meeting a person on the street; a right valued in old-fashioned streets
"I am your betrothed Bride, but because I feared lest the people should
_Prince._ Look, and thou shalt see.
"It was at my advice that Sir Charles was about to go to London.
"_Pretty little Hen,
it seems to be, to use the heavy rammer.
often.
old and petted servant who is allowed a good deal of liberty. For the
soldiers with kettledrums and trumpets. And when he went inside the
in order that his son might choose himself a Bride. When the two
soon brought back, and thrown into prison.
But at this point in the play, when the tragic complication really
daughters, and on his way home, as he was riding through a green
Help, help! Call help.
"What does this mean?"
_womanish fear_ are both from Brooke's poem:--
the beginning of act ii., and the last speech of act. v. See also
below.
_Montague._ O thou untaught! what manners is in this,
order of Nature."
Then the King felt compassion, and when he saw that she was so very
invisible attendant. So wily was he that he had not trusted
straight to the Golden Castle. You will reach it by eventide. And at
instantly confessed his guilt; and, with Sir Everard Digby, Catesby, and
i. 1. 260; but it is by no means certain that the allusion there is to
"Then we meet again at two o'clock. Au revoir, and good-morning!"
King's Son waited until her father came, and then he told him that the
At last, however, he chanced upon an island where the people knew
57. _What dares_, etc. How dares, or why dares, etc. Cf. _2 Hen. IV._ i.
us.
"_If thy Mother only knew,
Our friend, Sir Henry, and the lady had halted on the path and
"Very good. You are engaged, as I understand, to dine with our
1. 17), "do our country loss" (_Hen. V._ iv. 3. 21), "do him shame" (_R.
will spare your life."
master it was he who cared for the hound, though he may never
When the King and his huntsmen again saw the young Roe with the golden
_Romeo_. O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard,
sit down to work, lo! both shoes stood all finished on his table. He
of it, there stood a small cottage, and she was sitting on a bench
It was the end of November, and Holmes and I sat, upon a raw and
The Bridegroom stayed up-stairs alone for a long time; then as no one
Whilst he was thus going forth full of sorrow, the foal to which he
kind. But one false statement was made by Barrymore at the
For beauty starv'd with her severity
back your trap, however, and let them know that you intend to
soundly that he could hear nothing.
"I am afraid that I cannot answer that question."
Perhaps, as Dowden remarks, the word _green-sickness_ (see iii. 5. 155)
_Friar Laurence._ Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
"Yes," said the cook, and weighed her in his hand; "she has spared
It was decided, however, that the one who could fly the highest should
this place contains any secret which we have not already
_Juliet._ I will not fail; 't is twenty years till then.         170
the whole would require more space than we can afford in our little work.
she had to leave him he had rather it was to a neighbour like
and his neighbours or any fresh particulars concerning the death
are that one or other of them guides us to the truth. We may
greatest detective of all time."
time is not uncommon. Cf. _J.C._ v. 1. 72: "as this very day was Cassius
"_How fares my child, how fares my Roe?
58. _Antic face._ Referring to Romeo's mask. Cf. ii. 4. 29 below.
carriage of the returning heir of the Baskervilles.
Sir Henry Baskerville upon the moor."
5. _Bow of lath._ The Tartar bows resembled in form the old Roman or
"Listen," said the Fish, "I see very well that I am fated to fall into
ed. suggests that in the old arrangement of the scene the wall may have
etc.
As violently as hasty powder fir'd
"The escaped convict, sir--Selden, the criminal."
To desperate Aduentures, and assur'd Destruction.
God save the mark!--here on his manly breast;
But when the huntsman had had his sleep out, he awoke, and perceived
Kings' Sons came and tried to get through the thorny hedge into
off, it is not seemly to keep it on in my presence."
creatures in peace. I will not allow you to disturb them."
blame!" said the baronet. "We were tired with our journey and
His comrade ran thither and brought him what he wanted. As soon as the
Princesses.
second. You may have observed that I twice strolled over to the
things.
modern ones substitute "thou shalt."
_L. L. L._ i. 2. 184: "the passado he respects not." The _punto reverso_
reader. The early eds. have "runnawayes," "run-awayes," "run-awaies," or
sweet sound.
The Link-boys are often on the watch, with their large torches, at dark
back, and the baskets from his arm, looked at him quite kindly, and
The King and Queen looked in at the window. The Old Woman was sitting
Merripit House, but the dip of the moor had hid her until she was
220. _Green._ We have green eyes again in _M.N.D._ v. 1. 342: "His eyes
there. When our unknown had followed Baskerville home we should
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness,
waste your money on wicked men, and buy them free?"
Cover the table with something to eat!_"
Come in the rearward of a conquer'd woe"--
Golden Comb. When she had finished, she laid it down at the water's
"You?  Impossible!  A mason?"
They first drove to the little house, which he had built with the
The apple was so cunningly made that only the red cheek was poisoned.
dangerous business, and the more I see of it the less I like it.
washing-bowl, and the seventh into the clock-case. But the Wolf found
Noting this penury, to myself I said,
ship) building at Deptford.  You may see, by the boats in the front, how
it is badly needed.
72. _Well._ Often thus used of the dead. Cf. _W.T._ v. 1. 30, 2 _Hen.
"No one could have known. We only decided after I met Dr.
his time in the open air, and yet there was something in his
he took her in marriage. And the pretty miller's daughter became a
sometimes meant a counterfeit coin. Cf. Greene, _Thieves Falling Out_,
"Exactly. My body has remained in this armchair and has, I regret
"Husband," said she, "go to the Flounder. I will be Emperor."
O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!--
Dr. Mortimer looked at Holmes with an air of professional
his hand. At the same time three ravens flew down to him, perched
down to dinner again, and was quite frightened.
will throw in Bird-Found, and will boil him in it."
from that cry, which recalled the dark story of his family, and
Treat us not with words unkind,
him. He who says A must say B, likewise, and as he had yielded the
Late at night, the woodcutter came home, and reproached his wife for
the yeomen of the king's guard at the palaces.  Their coats are of fine
There was once a girl whose father and mother died while she was still
into the kitchen, the fifth into the cupboard, the sixth under the
"Surely your memory deceives you," said I. "I could even quote a
He drew the veil from her face, and when he saw her ugliness, he sprang
staircase. When it got to the top, it knocked at the door, and cried:
shirts over them. And as they were touched by them, their swan's skins
Where be these enemies?--Capulet!--Montague!
blood-tinted panes, was ghastly in the extreme, and produced so wild a
_Enter_ JULIET
lastly the Cock was to fly up and perch upon the head of the Cat.
and said, "What will you give me if I spin the straw for you this time
a haystack, has now reached the top of St. Paul's, and is admiring the
a mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart,
_Juliet._ Not proud you have, but thankful that you have;
plume of smoke.
longer have my eyes and can sew no more, I must go a-begging. At any
"Speak out, then! What does it mean?"
The Sources of the Plot                                   14
in S. (cf. _Hen. VIII._ i. 4. 94, etc.) except in _W. T._ iv. 4. 664:
have been cracking jokes with each other all the time."
_Romeo._                         If my heart's dear love--
garments, with her golden hair and her shining eyes, and it was as if
and conducted him to a stone table, on which were inscribed three
_Peter._ Anon.
the Bear, "You may lie there by the hearth, and then you will be safe
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
and round above them. It sank lower and lower, and at last settled near
"What are you saying there?" asked the King's Son.
"I cannot explain." She spoke in a low, eager voice, with a
down. You are in time to see a tragedy."
if you know her by sight. Here are three written descriptions by
Orchard," "Juliet's Bedchamber; a Window open upon the Balcony,"
Then he stood and looked at her well, and when he had looked at her
it was the goose-girl, whom he had seen before in the house of the Old
at the corner of the market-place, and set it around her ready for
75.  Highgate Tunnel.
The Wolf lifted the latch, the door flew open, and without saying a
"You bear him no good will, madam," said Holmes. "Tell us then
"I'll tell you what, Husband," answered the woman, "early to-morrow
"The straungenes of the chaunce, when tryed was the truth,
"Grow for two ends, it matters not at all,
once more, and the youth hired himself to a miller.
Fyrst nature did he blame, the author of his lyfe,
[Illustration: Verona]
came, into the garden. But when it was midnight, he could not keep
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him                      60
into the room, and as he did so Barrymore sprang up from the
seven little candles and let the light fall on little Snow-White.
plucked them out today. Then indeed you would have had him at
we were able to look after his wants. You would, naturally, wish
And hide 'mid the palm-tree till he had passed by:
himself that very afternoon. He had come to offer apologies for
the treasurer to the weakest party has often been plundered of such money
looked up with something reckless and defiant in her manner.
Daughter wants a husband. But whoever sues for her hand must perform a
I looked at the broad plumed hat, the curling love-locks, the
tear down some other man's gate and declare that a path has
who came uninvited, with a desire to conceal themselves for the sake of
long, and is ornamented with three Ionic porticos.  The post-office is
_Lady Capulet._                  You are too hot.
clean white linen, and Haensel and Grethel lay down in them, and
high grass and said, "We will sit down, and I will sing something to
industrious, and span, wove, and sewed, and the blessing of the good
upon the old house. And then suddenly, in the very dead of the
silken gown which you had on when you came to me, and then wait in your
troubling you about such a trifle--"
fantasticoes, these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,              30
must always have been most unfruitful soil. I am no antiquarian,
get out. Nevertheless he comforted his little sister, and said, "Do not
grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be
the tragedy was an early work of the poet, and that it was subsequently
he; though his face be better than any man's, yet his             40
_Sampson._ [_Aside to Gregory_] Is the law of our
And see how one another lends content;
By the long and weary way.
us together, and a community of interests in science kept us so.
Thus he roamed about in misery for some years, and at length came to
_Juliet._ O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
and was certainly in the house. For half an hour I waited with
see the true beauties of the moor."
THE HISTORY OF THE PLAY
quite full of straw, gave her a spinning-wheel and a reel, and said,
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
I am not the true Bride._"
heel."
hill, and the long slopes beneath me were all golden-green on one
Cutting the clouds towards Paphos, and her son
kill himself when he learns that he is to be banished from Verona,--an
fine apartment in which we found ourselves, large, lofty, and
explanation as that would be quite inadequate to account for the
prose version is evident from a careful comparison of the two with the
"But where are my two sisters?" inquired the girl.
"And the motto?"
fantastic appearances.  But in the western or black chamber the effect
the forest.
"corrected, augmented, and amended." There is a good deal of rhyme, and
When he was asleep, she unfastened the mantle from his shoulders, and
Our conversation was hampered by the presence of the driver of
of cotton grass which bore it up out of the slime some dark thing
dishes of lentils out of the ashes for me in one hour, you shall go
There was no chance of either of us forgetting that peculiar
all you gentlemen know a great deal more than I do about my own
across the moor and made for the stony hill over which the boy
but beware of getting into mischief again!" So he cried:
Whiter than new snow on a raven's back.
Between you both, shorten the time, I pray,
Chapter 5  Three Broken Threads
Mountain, which was so slippery, she stuck the three needles first
against weariness.
neighbours. Dr. Mortimer is a most learned man in his own line.
but then, instead of singing,
These she put in her jars to take home.
Each bent upon showing his skill and his speed:
not!" and took this answer to the King.
evidence that this may be so."
Here I knocked off the neck of a bottle which I drew from a long row of
Then said the Knight, "Two-Eyes, what shall I give you for it?"
we do not hear them speak until the close of their dialogue, in which
client. It is the greatest blow which has befallen me in my
because he had acted under his master's orders; the apothecary tortured
Little Snow-White longed for the fine apple, and when she saw that the
"I would ask you one more question, Miss Stapleton. If you meant
which were firing guns in their sore need, pitching and tossing on the
then the pigeons pecked out the other eye of each. And thus, for their
shall say no more about it; but advise those to remember her example, who
parlor and bedroom, and a kitchen and pantry, with the best of
_Lady Capulet._ No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
118. _Sycamore._ According to Beisly and Ellacombe, the _Acer
[Illustration: JULIET AT LAURENCE'S CELL.]
_Juliet._ I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,           150
_Servant._ Perhaps you have learned it without book;
In Paynter's _Palace of Pleasure_ he is spoken of as "an other Gentleman
stealthy air, as one who dreads pursuit. Then he vanished over
frizzling, and the cook, who was just going to pull the hair of the
is also used for anything circular; as marks of small-pox (_L. L. L._ v.
with a whippe." For the thought, cf. _Temp._ iv. 1. 30.
true Bride, and both of them reigned over their kingdom in peace and
wife. This man has disappeared and has escaped from the country.
Sir Henry to go out alone will become very much more onerous if a
But it was my native clime,
tastes of the duke were peculiar.  He had a fine eye for colours and
of paper, without even a water-mark upon it. I think we have
Thy dear love sworn, but hollow perjury,
date."
banqueting dishes. And of this paste our comfit makers at this day make
or immovable, within and without. And if he did not succeed in doing
"Have you got that slip?"
precaution of leaving our boots behind us, but, even so, the old
Or, if I live, is it not very like,
Fayre syr (quoth he) be sure this is the speeding gere,
Nares gives the following from one of the old English receipt-books,
"And there is in this business more than nature
nothing against him unless it be this dark fate which runs in his
present passage, cf. _T. and C._ iv. 5. 175: "You brace of warlike
"Husband," said she, "what nonsense! if he can make an Emperor he can
cleared, and no one else was present, a trusty servant had to bring him
With long bounds the huge black creature was leaping down the
155. _Out_, etc. "Such was the indelicacy of the age of S. that authors
let myself be seen by my people. I wish you had been made to run the
"Then he must have the mill," said the miller.
to pieces. But the third time, he took a cup away with him as a token.
her Prey, and not forsaking it till it be overcome."
But thou shalt hear it; whistle then to me
unexplored. No sign could we see of the man whom we were chasing.
affection," etc.
for the whole day, until at last she had found their dwelling.
The wine sparkled in his eyes and the bells jingled.  My own fancy grew
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.--
will kill him, and cook him."
The woman had brought two daughters into the house with her, who were
"The Amontillado!" I said.
Comb for you. Tarry till the full moon has risen, then go to the
she plucked rushes and wove them into a soft cord. With this she tied
"He may find his way in, but never out," she cried. "How can he
yet the same matter penned as it is, may serve to lyke good effect, if
there is an end of it. All right, Barrymore, you can go."
Go; I'll to dinner; hie you to the cell.
The proposition took me completely by surprise, but before I had
from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her," etc. It is early morning,
14. _Harlotry._ S. uses the noun only in this concrete sense: literally
10. _A measure._ A formal courtly dance. Cf. _Much Ado_, ii. 1. 80: "as
but as long as the shoemaker lived all went well with him, and all his
to look after his Ass himself, could not have much to spend. But when
misfortune" in v. 3. 82 below, etc. The figurative sense is a favourite
A general mathematician."
likewise. He would have nothing to do with the furious beast, and took
begged pardon of the relatives, who went home as poor as they came.
"Where be these enemies?--Capulet!--Montague!
is not incapable of fun. Cf. 125 below.
surprise--then, finally, of terror, of horror, and of disgust.
and the rest?  Let us be gone."
was stepping over the mill-dam, the first sunbeam was just breaking
The man drew out paper and tobacco and twirled the one up in the
the hound. We heard it, but we could not prove that it was
fluttered down upon us as we passed. The rattle of our wheels
On our way back we stayed for lunch at Merripit House, and it was
opening it.
In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
The Wise Woman said, "Two-Eyes, I will give you a piece of good advice.
the third, as it had not been named in the song, did not sleep. It is
Of ill-shap'd fishes; and about his shelves
King and Queen, who had perceived from a distance the light shining in
The illustrations are by the well-known Dutch artist, Mrs. Rie Cramer.
with instructions that they say nothing thereof to their
3. 3:--
by female spectators of the play;" but it is probably = the masks worn
of the bitterns."
care."
their versions of the most chaste and elegant of the Greek or Roman
He led her to his Kingdom where he was joyfully received, and they
"Is your name _Conrad_?"
[Picture: Temple Bar]
church surrounded by palaces. He pushed his way through the crowd.
happened we'll avenge him!"
of quarrel had been duly graded and classified, as Touchstone explains
in, or bed to sleep in. At last, she had nothing else but the clothes
in the night-time, carrying in their hands tapers of wax, which they
He caused the tailor to be brought before him next morning, and ordered
death."
_Capulet._ Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
leave you, and especially that you should not go alone upon the
51. _Present._ Immediate; as in iv. 1. 61 above. Cf. _presently_ in 21
and melancholy day. This was my conversation with Barrymore just
oak-trees standing beside it. Meanwhile the moon had risen large and
THE WHITE SNAKE
soul, the centre of my sinful earth."
through him that Sir Charles learned about my affairs."
the victory," said he, "but a stranger Knight who came to my assistance
was a human mouth."
A long, low moan, indescribably sad, swept over the moor. It
designed for torturing their English prisoners; and the following list of
be done, and every moment is of importance. We have our case, and
the three needles in it. And so at length they reached the little old
cry echoed over the moor. It turned me cold with horror, but my
once, twice, but he did not hear. Then they called him for the third
quick little movements of her hands as if she were very earnest
"Only that you have disarranged our little deductions. Your
"Good evening, Mother."
Mrs. Laura Lyons was in her office, and Sherlock Holmes opened
_Friar Laurence._ Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
the tailor, and told her his fate.
And make him chase it here and there,
water to set out the bridal, is now wet in tears to furnish her burial."
million."
architecture the term is sometimes applied to _louvres_ on the roofs of
extraordinary interest, and one which presented immense
so that he came down without injury, and then the blower said to him,
with that. They, however, did not cease, and then she threw her girdle
the affair and tried to picture all that had occurred. As the old
He had brought back much scientific information from South
THE WOLF AND THE SEVEN LITTLE KIDS                                19
"First of all your name and address, in case I want you again."
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
110. _While we_, etc. This line, with the change of _we_ to _they_, is
devoured you," thought he, and yet it seemed as if a stone had been
"Little Snow-White shall die," she cried, "even if it costs me my life!"
problem will soon be solved. I have no doubt--"
At home, an hundred miles away,
Soon after, a buyer came in, and as the shoes pleased him well, he paid
surmounted by the conical cap and bells.  I was so pleased to see him,
"To hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like
Holmes, what in thunder is the meaning of that, and who it is
dye it selfe, but the feare thereof kylleth the dogge or beast which
bound them together. When he was ascending the stairs with them, the
person, and I only mention him because you were particular that I
senses keenly on the alert once more. We had heard the creak of a
etc., and explains thus: "On more view of whom (that is, the lady of
109. _Art thou_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
"a sable cloud
was unfair on our part to hunt his brother-in-law down when he,
_Romeo._ I thought all for the best.
it was only the bands which were springing from the heart of Faithful
"Then you leave my employment right away."
_Lady Capulet._                  That same villain, Romeo.
Son--he is with me in a moment."
"The brute!" cried Holmes. "Here, Lestrade, your brandy-bottle!
SCENE I.--2. _Dull earth._ "Romeo's epithet for his small world of man,
fern;" _The Princess_: "A full sea glazed with muffled moonlight;" _In
blossoming manhood, that humorsome, whimsical 'love in idleness,' that
where a window or a coat of arms broke through the dark veil.
Monaldi,--Filippeschi, reckless one!
passes." Sir Henry rubbed his hands with pleasure, and it was
Then he went on still farther, and all was so quiet that a breath could
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
"_Prologue_": (14). Whole no. 14.
thrill in the doctor's voice which showed that he was himself
of the villagers of Fernworthy and sometimes against them, so
etc.
and perhaps her grave." See also _Per._ ii. 3. 45:--
knew nothing of the true characters of love" (Schmidt).
chose to take (Holt White).
to shew the moon which keepeth no certain course."
rest. The postmaster, who was also the village grocer, had a
paradize."
"Then you are a swineherd's daughter! Go away at once. Tell the King's
up and down the columns. "Capital article this on free trade.
some corruption in the first part of the compound.
not enable us to see.
Knock the nail on the head._
_Mercutio._              True, I talk of dreams,
"She _shall_ be married," and the day is fixed. Already he calls Paris
in your whole life."
"I imagine that it must be Sir Henry Baskerville."
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
sole singular.
for as many days more as they had danced nights with the Twelve.
That you run mad seeing that she is well;
_Nurse._ The son and heir of old Tiberio.                         131
the path to run into the wood, when my mother has forbidden me to do
In mere size and strength it was a terrible creature which was
leapt with joy.
and that you are looking for it. You understand?"
89. _Plats the manes_, etc. "This alludes to a very singular
subsequently printed in full in the second. The former was "made up
peeping. She had such large teeth that the girl was frightened, and was
Count stood near them; and when she perceived him, she became as red in
In the evening when work was over and it had grown dusk, he stole to
I will eat a bit of the roof, and you, Grethel, can eat some of the
Your first is dead, or 'twere as good he were
etc.
eyes. It was indeed the same face which had glared upon me in the
"I see that you have quite gone over to the supernaturalists. But
sending back my own name to me through the cabman. From that
our most obvious missing links. We have him, Watson, we have him,
her sometimes, and tell her that Paris is the properer
is now the only gate standing, except St. John's Gate, Smithfield, out of
as if the entire roof had fallen in.
like any common person.
family. He is the prince's "kinsman," and apparently on terms of
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark.
"That is my intention."
man, and was no other than the brother of the beautiful Princess, who
"My dear fellow, you exaggerate. I have some recollection,
His son is thirty.
Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again
29. _Humorous._ Humid. Delius (like Schmidt) sees a quibble in the word:
poison in it took effect, and the maiden fell down senseless.
home with you. Go, and do it at once."
guilt to the real murderer.
"Oh, because she vexes me the whole day long."
"Look!" said he, "what a proud creature! It has a ruby-red crown upon
"No, Wife," said the man, "the Flounder has just given us the cottage.
A little farther on one begged for a frock, and she gave away that also.
The people were well pleased. For a whole night they did not sleep, and
cellar.
The Witch fell into a passion, let him down again into the well, and
Dear, what a large city! and full, in all parts,
ancient times."
houses placed at proper distances by the river-side, where assistance may
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
"They will be asleep and snoring, and you can quietly lead out the
recalled the pains and the pride with which I had composed them.
complex case had come to him in all the long series of his
me free, and I pity you. If you do all I bid you, you shall fare well.
hood, her fan, and rosary--the very beau-ideal of a proud Italian matron
his study some little time. Sitting in the billiard-room I more
_Friar Laurence._ Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
waiting for the Twelve Princesses. Each took one of them with him, but
'Twould surely break her heart in two!_"
The hawk was _hooded_ till ready to let fly at the game. Cf. _Hen. V._
Against to-morrow. My heart is wondrous light,
She began to weep, and did not know what to do for fear. "Alas! what
And in his window (of his wares) there was so small a shew,
hills there was a circle of the old stone huts, and in the middle
people were not to be found, being one too many, even when by himself"
to torment myself any longer with the needle;" and he ran out and
sparkled with all colors so beautifully, that the children stood still
He said, "You shall return here, and bring a knife with you, and scrape
Once our friends stopped and stared into a shop window, upon
Then her Prince said, "I can't tell why the boat is so much heavier
As soon as every one had gone away, he said to her, "What did you say
But thou slew'st Tybalt; there art thou happy too.
pocket-handkerchief and tied it round his head, in order that the man
and went to another door.
versions of the story she is eighteen, and Brooke makes her sixteen. All
taken no step since I had been upon the moor which had not been
shrouded in black velvet tapestries that hung all over the ceiling and
_Id._ ii. 1. 74, _L. L. L._ iv. 3. 384, and _Rich. II._ iii. 4. 7.
way to turn. She was full of sorrow and never ceased to think how
"_Looking-Glass, Looking-Glass, on the wall,
After this, she bade good-bye to her father, took some money with her,
"Well, I must confess to it."
[Picture: The Watchman]
_Romeo._ Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
Both you and I, for Romeo is exil'd;
feather'd sylvans sing;" and again in _Third Eclogue_: "Time plays the
richest and fullest effect of harmonious contrivance."
waiting! What's he waiting for? What does it mean? It means no
26, 27. _I have bought_, etc. There is a strange confusion of metaphors
_Nurse._                         God in heaven bless her!
On the second day, Iron John equipped him as a white Knight, and gave
help us," she cried. "If the wild beasts in the forest had but devoured
also, only give me a horse."
The kind and loving mother of those two children is dead, and going to
found that he had some lay of his own. A kind of gentleman he
97. _Who._ For _which_, as often; but here, perhaps, on account of the
Then the old King commanded him to relate what it was that she did to
before we need think of starting. I think we might employ it in
"It is nothing," he said; "let us go on.  But first, another draught of
journey?"
"Thank you; I am afraid I cannot claim her acquaintance. We have
Thou talk'st of nothing.
me to take you. In that way, you will get your food for nothing."
and I made inquiries for the lady whom I had come to interrogate.
his openly expressed desire that the whole countryside should,
other means of saving ourselves!"
THE SPOILS OF THE SPANISH ARMADA.
of. I do not trouble you with my theories, for you asked me to
At last a plan came into his head, and he said to his sons, "Go into
noontide prick." See also _R. of L._ 781.
"I am a poor girl, and I am rinsing yarn."
Whipp'd and tormented and--Good-den, good fellow.
is common in the old eds.) except in this latter passage.
drink, or you will become a Roe, and run away from me."
23.  The Dancing Bear and Dogs.
after a while came to life again.
farmhouse of Foulmire. He has been very attentive to us, and
where, after the quibbling "chaff" of the mechanics about their trades,
step which she took. Then she was frightened, and became uncertain
satisfied with Romeo till I behold him; 3. I never shall be satisfied
himself upon foot, but he had availed himself of a cab so that he
83. _Was ever book_, etc. Cf. i. 3. 66 above.
Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
his pleasure, and that he could do what he liked in it. Then as
pond, and called him anew. She reviled the Nix with harsh words, but
_The story's done!_
"Ha! Where is Barrymore?"
bowed him through several suites of rooms to the archway that led into
three-legged horse.
junior officer of arms riding up to the gate, knocks with a cane.  The
Stags and deer stretched their heads in between them. Brightly-colored
had been so clever, and had loved one another so much, they were all
burning, and round about the fire a funny Little Man was jumping. He
The woman went down, and found all three in the midst of their
across her neck.
"If you will try it," said she, "I shall be very glad. You will
"I hope," said Dr. Mortimer, "that you do not look with
"Sir Charles had the reputation of being rich, but we did not
Selden's death was as Stapleton would have us believe. He will
She went out and found Maid Maleen, and said, "Girl, what did you say
evening before they reached home.
etc.
in it, and said:
She sought her children, but they were nowhere to be found. She called
comfortable living, and am as happy as the day is long:
And sayde, 'sires, what? Dun is in the myre.'"
followed it with her eyes; but it vanished, and the well was deep, so
As soon as they were assembled, the miller bade them make way, spread
Her vestal livery is but sick and green,
But the prudent youth answered, "If I give you my cake and wine, I
_Ode at a Solemn Musick_, 27:--
pieces, and the quilts and pillows were pulled off the bed.
could loiter behind or dash past them and so escape their notice.
delirious fancies such as the madman fashions.  There were much of the
"What sort of night was it?'
There were great rejoicings over her arrival, and the Prince sprang
and thine are both set on the victory."
29. _Heaven is here_, etc. "All deep passions are a sort of atheists,
and forward like a philosopher. Sometimes he stood still, took a frog
left leg so hard with both hands, that he tore himself in two.
to what suited him. The Donkey laid himself down upon some straw in
She only shook her head. As they pressed her further with questions,
hinted at and guessed.  Nor can it be denied that many of
her royal apparel for her own shabby clothes; and at length she was
historical basis, the Montagues and the Capulets were famous old
190. _Exile._ Accented by S. on either syllable. So also with the noun
"Why, you had not very much time for talk," her brother remarked
and went off without even once looking at the children.
"It's all these goings-on, sir," he cried at last, waving his
"Do give me one night's lodging, and a little to eat and drink," said
This hall was the court of justice in which the sovereign presided in
The buildings at each place are more like palaces than hospitals, and
seeing little Snow-White. I will honor and prize her as my dearest
profanity.
"Well, I understand that they get five pounds if they can give
together.
attentions which were distasteful to her? Did I think that
warnings?"
[Illustration]
tasks, by the doing of which the castle could be delivered. The first
which included the receipt of the printed letter, the
Now, the Old Woman had, through her sorceries, contrived that the eyes
It best agrees with night.--Come, civil Night,                    10
sewing. The old woman took the forlorn child to live with her, kept her
swimming there. If I ask her, she will help us over." Then she cried:
their _edges_, as the light from behind falls upon them. Have these
whirring and crowding in, and alighted amongst the ashes. And the
of rocks, and the long, low curve of the melancholy moor. I
We had left the fertile country behind and beneath us. We looked
his eyes fixed upon it, and I read upon his eager face how much
there, clasping him round the neck, and she was as beautiful as ever!
"He dictated it."
and the Gold-Ass, which the thievish innkeeper took away from my
very spirit of her national records, her old family feuds, the amorous
and then it will vanish again from your sight."
days of her life.
multiplied nightly in the cupboards. It was not long before his wealth
41.  Smithfield Market
has been done by Sir Charles will crash to the ground if there is
Betwixt the Duke of Gloster and your brothers," etc.
"Elsie, go into the cellar and fetch some beer."
He was dreadfully frightened, and ran to the back door, but the Dog,
the rank. We followed their cab until it pulled up somewhere near
one word of this to any one at the Royal Court. And if she had not
He waited until midnight, when everything lay in deep sleep, and the
As they passed by the hazel-tree, the two white doves cried:
Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty.
"_Oh, Queen, of all here the fairest art thou,
Now, before the northern gales,
"How can you do that?"
had let fall into the well.
"the evil repute of the collier for cheating." Steevens compares _T.N._
confidence with you that decerns you nearly."
that you would do as you were told, and I tell you to stay."
and more graceful, and therefore, it would seem, a more appropriate
there is upon the river, there seems to be a rowing match among several
Memoriam_: "muffled round with woe," etc. Milton has _unmuffle_ in
"Hardly that."
MOTHER HOLLE                                                     208
with you from your apprenticeship?"
Rapunzel had magnificent long hair, fine as spun gold, and when she
_Montague._      But I can give thee more;
"Yes, sir, all the windows."
"Ha! ha! ha!--he! he! he!--a very good joke indeed--an excellent jest.
facts which were mentioned at the inquest. I followed the
bright, while a half-moon bathed the whole scene in a soft,
[_They fight; Tybalt falls._
154. _Lamentation._ Metrically five syllables.
likes with it."
Thisbe a grey eye or so, but not to the purpose.--Signior
When he came to the house of the poor girl, she was not standing at
The "balcony scene" (ii. 2)--the most exquisite love scene ever
and all good counsels.
asleep in the sun. Didst thou not fall out with a
the iron stove there," and he went away.
We wish thee good-night._"
"Who dares,"--he demanded hoarsely of the courtiers who stood near
again carried through the streets, some peas certainly did fall out of
hat. A tin box for botanical specimens hung over his shoulder and
48. _Howling._ For the association with _hell_, cf. _2 Hen. IV._ ii. 4.
But as they did not find any leather cut out, only the pretty little
76.  Watering the Streets.
prison of Princetown. Between and around these scattered points
_V._ v. 2. 320.
authority upon the subject, and that the name of Vandeleur has
the story and the manner in which he had treated it, needed further
identification," said he.
_Rhymed couplets_ or "rhyme-tags" are often found at the end of scenes;
tell me." Elsewhere it is = just in time; as in _A.W._ v. 1. 6, _Ham._
But sadly tell me who.
Bylt in an happy time, bylt on a fertile soyle:
bears the flattering semblance of truth. It has perplexed some of the
that there where the pearl had been, they would obtain news of their
Lanes and meadows damp among.
burst upon our ears, nearer, louder, more urgent than before.
"Is your name _Harry_?"
95. _Case._ There is a play upon the other sense of the word (a case for
"I was on that hill."
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest, where they had
should be the centre of my search. From there I should explore
bright paper and numerous candles did something to remove the
He stamped his feet upon the ground.
"And you will report very carefully to me," said Holmes. "When a
penalty for tolerating the discords of the families. "We all," he says,
fish. As they came near the brook, they saw something like a large
and thought to herself, "You might certainly shut one eye, you will
46.  The Chair-mender.
He did not think twice about it, but paid for them. And when they were
thereupon they went to bed.
faithful Cartwright, who would certainly have pined away at the
_Nurse._ Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as
"Thank you. Good-morning."
opened his eyes wide, and ran and sought out the best he could muster.
Once shall I come, then never moe!_"
The eldest, however, had none of them, but got the merry tailor for a
_Juliet._                        Madam, I am here.
And I, for winking at your discords too,
the help of witchcraft, which she understood, she made a poisonous comb.
Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
the play. The old men, the Capulets and the Montagues, are not common
but the arrow had struck his plumage, and one of his golden feathers
house?"
_Lady Capulet._ Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
"I never was more glad to see anyone in my life," said I as I
but I am almost certain that this address has been written in a
the widow and wooed her, and the wedding was celebrated.
Maleen, and I should believe that it was she herself, but she has long
_iambi_), and the form of verse is called _iambic_.
had some weeks of severe work, and for one evening, I think, we
"You tame Pigeons, you Turtledoves, and all you birds under heaven,
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable."
_Romeo._ What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
"That's so," said Baskerville. "By the way, Dr. Mortimer, who is
instance. The man is certainly a country practitioner. And he
for instance, has but one, and the _W.T._ none.
"To go to Baskerville Hall."
"I can go no further in skill," said he, "and yet things improve every
pieces, and said he was to provide something good for him, the host
Maintains such falsehood then turn tears to fires;
_Juliet._ O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
84. _Lantern._ Used in the architectural sense of "a turret full of
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
_Peace_ may perhaps be metrically a dissyllable, as in _A.Y.L._ ii. 4.
my missing boot there will be trouble. I can take a joke with the
window, and I looked through a blurred pane at the driving clouds
"Who would seat herself at a corner of the market-place with crockery?"
mean without his mistress, whom he has had to leave; roe meaning a
I am able to support myself it is largely due to the interest
"I was a boy in my teens at the time of my father's death and had
"messmates," and Nares as probably = "roaring or swaggering companions."
As, however, she still stayed away, and it was evening, Hans went out
See also _R. of L._ 1127.
The German critic Kreyssig aptly remarks: "We make the acquaintance of
"Alas," answered he, "do not question me about it, for I dare not tell
Little brother took his little sister by the hand and said, "Since our
whether any crime has been committed at all; the second is, what
Once a year, about six thousand charity children, dressed in uniforms of
could never have set his foot upon firm land again. He held an
One day, the huntsman was chasing a roe. And when the animal turned
The maiden looked for strawberries outside, but as she found none, she
_Nurse._ I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes--
"Exactly."
what he was doing?"
113. _County._ See on i. 3. 83 above.
"No, I swear it to you on all I hold sacred. I never went.
race, and the heir to great wealth, to that deadly place. And yet
The little tailor saw that here also nothing was to be done. "Three
"I think that I shall be in a position to make the situation
cleaned?"
"as we watch these kites
Of my child's love. I think she will be rul'd
Prince. A glooming peace this morning with it brings;
That lady and her children, who have gone from Cheapside to Islington,
refused to accept any settlement from Sir Charles, though he
Not far from the Mansion House stands the Bank of England.  This building
us. We are going to Bremen. You can find something better than death
Have you deliver'd to her our decree?
and added, "If you come up without it, you will be thrown in again and
that hour, whenever she looked at little Snow-White, her heart heaved
to rise no more.
37.  The Dustman.
high-water mark; and the whole appears an admirable piece of workmanship,
naturalist's angry gestures showed that the lady was included in
_Benvolio._ Stop there, stop there.
Why dost thou so crye after death? thy life why dost thou hate?"
in the olden time is evident from the fact that in the 21st year of the
Did the laden vessel ride,
Wherfore our Romeus assuredly hath thought,
watching the road along which we travelled.
turned the manuscript to the light and read in a high, cracking
79. _King of cats._ See on ii. 4. 20 above. On _nine lives_, cf.
two--let me go till I have grown strong. A time may come when I can
been sudden, bloody, and mysterious.  Yet may we shelter
And like her most whose merit most shall be;
and Dekker, _Wonderful Year_: "The rosemary that was washed in sweet
That friers in the towne should seeldome walke alone,
that his work or was it possibly the doing of someone who was
is nothing to eat unless he were to catch and slaughter one of
told his sister to sit by him. "No," replied Grethel, "that will be
things; and nobody shall laugh at me any more, because I have not seen
it untroubled, the bargain which he had made with the Nix tormented his
on their backs, that they will not be able to stir or move for a week,
Because the tailor looked so lively and merry, and had such pretty red
fairy tales, of actually illustrating their text. This will mean added
moment when Dr. Mortimer withdrew from the service of the
74. _Up._ Dowden plausibly prints "Up--," assuming that "Romeo eagerly
The Little Black Man heard this plot, and at night when the soldier
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
"Who is the gentleman with the telescope?"
night."
own age, see on i. 3. 51 below.
(iii. 4) would not have uttered stately speeches in verse, but would
_2 Servant._ I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,
"But it is a table which furnishes itself," replied the son. "When I
Is banished, and all the world to nothing
as far back as the school-mastering days, so that he must have
"At least I might go the length of saying that there is some
Then she was satisfied, for she knew that the Looking-Glass spoke the
"Fortunato--"
[Illustration: THE KING SAID, "WILL YOU BE MY DEAR WIFE?"]
THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER                                       83
D'Olive_, 1606: "Here shall stand my court-cupboard with its furniture
estimation (judgment), and memory."
has been at the tomb only half an hour or so (v. 3. 130) before the
"I seem to have walked right into the thick of a dime novel,"
activity and fear lest he should lose his footing in the
was wanting, and it was delicate withal and white as snow, and smelt
"A dog!" said Holmes. "By Jove, a curly-haired spaniel. Poor
dead. She was so poor that she no longer had any little room to live
To it all the beautiful young girls in the country were invited,
good to anyone of the name of Baskerville, and very glad I shall
Lexicon_ (3d ed. 1902); Littledale's ed. of Dyce's _Glossary_ (1902);
perhaps--upon my track, and this was his report. Possibly I had
had the chance for which he had waited.
"And so every body who tries it, will find:
there is anything which has remained a secret to us. You will
ii. 1. 102:--
"And as you value your life do not go across the moor in any
"Well done! Our researches have evidently been running on
profligates not excepted. The only instance in Shakespeare's works in
have been imposed upon.  And as for Luchesi, he cannot distinguish
pieces by the wild beasts in the wood, and that the little brother had
love to be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra
the yard-measure would have been too good for her, he brought the
Borne to their church with open face vpon the beere he lyes,
our conjectures are correct--"
"All right, then, I'll stay."
And yet it was not quite the last. I found myself weary and yet
truths so tenderly and poetically set forth therein.
do you not look round? I believe, too, that you do not hear how sweetly
rapier.
and George Rennie, Esqrs.  It stands a short distance westward of the old
down," and he told her what the King had demanded of him.
well-bred," though elsewhere it has the modern sense; as in _M.W._ i. 3.
Then the head answered:
its flowers, the air only its perfume and its balm, the heavens only
building, with the variety of pavements and chapels, are well worthy of a
might be the calling of a strange bird."
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird and bust and door;
"You have presented an inch or two of it to my examination all
word he went straight to the Grandmother's bed, and devoured her. Then
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
blood-bedewed halls of their revel, and died each in the despairing
'I'" here, but it does not seem necessary to the understanding of the
And as such a mighty love took possession of him, he went up to her and
On the third morning, the woodcutter said to his wife, "Send our
his state of health, was of the same opinion. At the last instant
"speak a word" in opposition to his determination to let her "die in the
The Dwarf said, "The Lord Ravens are not at home, but if you wish to
served up, you called, my young lady asked for,
Along the hedge I bent my way,
If ever you disturb our streets again,
her children for many years. She took the two rose-trees with her, and
"I see. And you saw no more of him?"
hand, put it in his sack, and said, "Why don't you bring more at the
and the cigar fell from his fingers.
2. _Maidenhead._ Etymologically the same word as _maidenhood_. So
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
suggestion of so-called "poetic justice" or retribution in the fate that
more. Then he said, "I will just make an end of the thing. People do
by S. Cf. iii. 2. 12 above.
"I have nothing in the world against you, my good man," said
In what I further shall intend to do,
Have chose as umpire of their mutiny."
*       *       *       *       *
to her waiting-maid, "Dismount, and take my cup which you have brought
of this night. But if you succeed, you shall be my wife." "Even if she
nut, and within it was a still more beautiful dress which was stiff
should never have her again, and went away. He called, he wept. He
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
51. _O' t'other._ On the other. Cf. i. 1. 44 above: "of our side."
"Yes, sir, and mean to find it."
woman than he is with our beautiful neighbour, Miss Stapleton.
helpless in the hands of a desperate fellow like this Notting
Next day, the Old Woman took him to the well, and let him down in a
The next day he again went and asked for his ball. The Wild Man said,
and a sceptre of pure gold and jewels in her hand. On both sides of
Spread it with pitch,
though he had no hope of finding it. After he had wandered through
"To walk across the moor?"
and had to walk onward alone.
When he reached home he gave the two daughters the things which
lady and to bear her fan!" The fans of the time of S. were large and
that he wounded the youth's leg with the point of his sword. The youth
Then he gave her a companion who walked near her, but did not speak.
The girl went into the forest and straight up to the little house. The
"The devil's agents may be of flesh and blood, may they not?
"I suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can
We were both swift runners and in fairly good training, but we
She sprang to the door and would have run away, but on the stairs a man
He put his hat on with all haste, and gathered wild field-flowers and
the entreaty of the Little Man, had gone outside the city-gate, was
of S.'s time were not only concerted music, but generally composed of
Now your charity would sue;
them.
said to him, "Be so kind as to fetch me the small bundle I have left
kicked him with his foot and said, "What sort of an earthworm is lying
had often repeated when she was sitting at her work, came into her
parlance), and it is best to wait a year or two:--
to boil over at a wharf near Ratcliffe Cross, it set fire to a warehouse
then, by a specious argument, prevented her from going, and so
= bully, bluster; as in _A.Y.L._ i. 3. 122: "I'll have a martial and a
16. _Slow'd._ The only instance of the verb in S.
back and noted how hill after hill showed traces of the ancient
_Benvolio._ At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
jumpy if he lived all alone in such a house as this. However, if
Which, as he breath'd defiance to my ears,
whatever reading or analysis we adopt. Capulet says in substance: Come
misfortune we are accustomed, than give up our lives to such a monster
before nine in the evening on Tuesday, _thirty_ hours is the most that
it is used correctly.
quite out of its proper place. That may point to carelessness or
herself by the well and spin. And in order that her shuttle might be
Mary Magnay by name,
_Romeo._ Go to; I say you shall.
before the mutilation of the relic was prohibited by its guardians.
that his heart rejoiced at the sight of them.
critical introduction by me, was published in Boston, 1893.]
had gone. Full of joy, the youth ran to the King, and told him that the
may have some bread."
Rosamond_:--
enough to convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation. The
sin that they have took!'"
fellows.
violence! But it would be endless to repeat observations of this sort.
He stood on the shore and considered what he should do, when suddenly
here? Let us go home." When they got home, the cook asked if they had
_Friar Laurence._ On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
"I presume that the reason he gave was that you would receive
Before long, they came to a Cat, sitting on the path, with a face like
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
127. _Capels'._ See on v. 1. 18 above.
This man seems to be very busy, and it is but reasonable to suppose that
So fairly bound? O, that deceit should dwell
It could not better be proportioned."
her up, looked to see whether they could find anything poisonous,
she was over it, she hid them in a place which she marked carefully.
He uses it only here.
the boars' heads of the Baskervilles. The lodge was a ruin of
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
_Nurse._ [_Within_] Let me come in and you shall know my errand;
an East-Anglian provincialism. Halliwell-Phillipps cites Vicars, trans,
lamented, but all in vain, "Ah, what is to become of me?"
[Picture: The Press-gang]
as you live you will never get a horse."
Little Dog of the limping leg,
the little brother was going to drink out of it, but the little sister
smilingly wound her dripping arms around him, and drew him quickly down
Old chairs to mend! old chairs to mend!
life," he cried with many chuckles. "I have brought off a double
sparkling meadows and woods of ancient days.
stayed by it to watch it. And birds came too, and wept for little
As soon as the sun had set, the King said to the huntsmen, "Now come
just now, but it should make my next report interesting reading.
"Ah! do not, when my heart hath scap'd this sorrow,
life, running until he burst his heart--and fell dead upon his
The maiden was terrified, and said, "Alas! dear Mother, will you cast
face.
44.  The Temple
quite close.
Come, go, good Juliet. [_Noise again._]--I dare no longer stay.
26. _Becomed._ Becoming. Cf. "lean-look'd" = lean-looking in _Rich. II._
The words took away my breath for an instant but a glance at the
the three servants were coming, and the cook waddling after them.
[Picture: Guy Fawkes in Effigy]
In all respects by me; nay, more, I doubt it not.--
time. But in an instant, when the King's Daughter had got a very little
the reformers, who regarded it as an object of superstition.  _Le Sueur_,
great pipes, which run through the streets of London, happens to burst,
line of the prologue to the present play: "In fair Verona, where we lay
to keep his mill as well. Then she took her faithful Hans, set him in
The lady stirs.                                  [_Juliet wakes._
how to do every possible injury to the man's daughter, whose beauty,
116. _Forth._ Cf. _M.N.D._ i. 1. 164: "Steal forth thy father's house,"
these _pardonnez-mois_, who stand so much
And now she gave him to eat and to drink, and said, "Go home. I will
_Rich. II._ ii. 3. 121, etc.
that he is periodically either carried in triumph down the
child, and he grows big, and we send him into the cellar here to draw
And turns it to exile; there art thou happy.                     140
Again the King considered how to get rid of his unpleasant guests, and
25. _Dark heaven._ The darkness of night. Cf. i. 5. 47 below.
name, must stretch along this line, with the moor, as you
continued as we retraced our steps swiftly down the path. "Those
she said. I trust that he is kind to her. There is a dry glitter
was secured at the back of the pillar. Another covered the lower
prosaic homeliness of the outline, and the magical illusion of the
one to see her, and Maid Maleen had to take her her meals from the
could rejoice over my own misfortune, for, with my strong tastes
Godno, in Little Russia, in the year '66, and of course there are
the Dwarfs cannot wake you up again!"
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
morning before. Sir Henry Baskerville listened with the deepest
With slender nedle taught her sow, and how to spin with silke.
_Juliet._ O, find him! give this ring to my true knight,
_Juliet._ Speakest thou from thy heart?
out again."
Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind:                       130
THE GOOSE-GIRL AT THE WELL
to be. Then, again, whom was he waiting for that night, and why
wish your brother to overhear what you said? There is nothing to
conceived than that dark form and savage face which broke upon us
had been cheated. He laid his sack on the table before him, and began
_Romeo._ Sin from my lips? O trespass sweetly urg'd!
pick them off the ground. Wheresoever he went, the best of everything
_Juliet._ Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
Revet made a fortune by this statue, casting a vast number of articles in
Maid Maleen, however, refused it, and said, "I wish for no honor which
Next morning, when they all awoke, and went to the house-door, there
I had seen enough of the contrary nature of the old sinner to
"Surely we have a case."
I had finished my report.
friends the Stapletons tonight."
103: "our solemn festival," etc. Hunter quotes Harrington, _Ariosto_:--
"I fear that Watson and I must go to London."
I felt that something was being held back from me. Why should she
In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly over the meadow toward him.
_Capulet._ How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
forth with the Count in order to seek out the Old Woman in the
SCENE I. _Verona. A Public Place_.
West Smithfield, where you see the white projecting house, as it was left
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
The girl knew not how to help herself, and was crying, when the door
and all over it, so that there was nothing of it to be seen, not even
mine may remain forever a mystery. The question now is, what
"Nothing more is needed than that you should light your pipe at the
of any kind of Hawke, so tearmed, because he is, commonly, a third part
mother, and now I shall again have to bear hunger and want."
came this terrible catastrophe.
APPENDIX
scheme into which all these strange and apparently disconnected
into every corner, before you do it."
could easily have flown much higher, but the evening came on, and I
find out the time.
79, 176, 178, i. 2. 25, i. 4. 7, 100, etc., above.
Our driver half turned in his seat. "There's a convict escaped
interview, "you are taking a very great responsibility and
But the boy was afraid. He called and cried after him, "Oh, Wild Man,
gave a sigh which I took to indicate his relief. "What do you
A._ iii. 4. 8 (Delius).
70. _Clubs._ The cry of _Clubs_! in a street affray is of English
some to "those," etc.; but _scales_ may be used for the entire machine.
to it. And when it had finished its song, it spread its wings and flew
Brooke, in his lumbering verse:--
Then the cook sent three servants after them, who were to run and
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity
fair pearl in a Morian's ear."
Sings sorrow, sorrow, sorrow,
happened that the King of the country held a great hunt in the forest.
Get you to bed; faith, you'll be sick to-morrow
"Your crow goes through and through one," said the Donkey. "What is the
desperate pass. Cf. _M.N.D._ iii. 2. 3, _A.Y.L._ iv. 1. 5, etc.
night and the light at the window. Sir Henry and I both stared at
But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
iii. 7. 121: "'tis a hooded valour; and when it appears it will bate."
find a few notes upon the matter under the heading B in my
"I suppose there are few people living within driving distance of
castle-yard. There will be great rejoicing at the sight, and they will
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?                     20
With frendly gripe he ceasd [seized] fayre Juliets snowish hand:
"I did a good deal of shopping. Dr. Mortimer here went round with
God graunt he so confirme in thee thy present will,
Here was luck indeed! And yet I suppressed all appearance of
It was a beautiful evening. The sun shone brightly between the trunks
"It suggests--halloa, my dear fellow, what on earth is the
pilcher by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about
But when she was outside, the three Little Men said to one another,
situation very much. I did not know about a projected divorce
As her father wished to give her to another, the Prince was rejected.
moving swiftly among the boulders upon the side of a distant
with several interesting English cases. This article, you say,
satisfied their hunger, and cried, "We will remember you--one good turn
her third eye was in the centre of her forehead.
whole world. He hardly dared to breathe, but stretched his head as far
a wooden cage, whilst a golden one stood hard by; and the three Golden
delivered from this stone to the people.
Then his master began to consider how he might best save his keep; but
When the day came for the sentence to be executed, it was the last day
grinding barrow, and began business for myself; and now I earn a
not dangerous," etc. See also _1 Hen. IV._ iii. 1. 255.
than once whether he did really believe in the possibility of the
Then said Two-Eyes, "I will go up, perhaps I may succeed better."
upon the moor?"
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.                        10
easily meet with a great misfortune."
"No, sir, it is gone forever."
_Romeo._ Not having that which, having, makes them short.
She sat down and tried to spin, but the hard thread soon cut her soft
_Romeo._ A right good mark-man! And she's fair I love.
_Juliet._                        Madam, I am not well.
_Re-enter some of the_ Watch, _with_ BALTHASAR
will ride through it."
20. _Prince of cats._ _Tybert_ is the name of the cat in _Reynard the
And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--
I will not!"
And once, as he was sitting with his rod, looking at the clear water,
since.  If I have set it down it is because that which is
There it means to die (its original sense), as in _Hen. VII._ v. 3. 132.
cowslips, wild thyme, and a thousand other flowers. Through the midst
portion of the alley."
name was.
"When you get into the wood yonder, shoot me dead, and chop off my head
saw the tall, austere figure of Holmes standing motionless and
Then said the Old Man, "Just go up-stairs, and you will find a room
_Romeo._ Can I go forward when my heart is here?--
Now it befell that, one evening not long before Christmas, when the man
stranger maiden had leapt into the pigeon-house. The old man thought,
As they crossed the heath again on their way home they surprised the
children have materially advanced. Therefore, in this book, a few other
As I intended, for it wrought on her
_Friar Laurence._ Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
door of my hut, as a dog does at his master's grave, if I had not
Psychology_, March, 1883). Medical Officer for the parishes of
editors. The quartos and 1st folio have "It seemes she hangs." As
"Snap goes our third thread, and we end where we began," said he.
[Picture: The Blue-coat School]
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
_T. and C._ i. 2. 128, ii. 2. 75, etc.
children" (childeren, the original form of the word); _W.T._ iv. 4. 76:
it is = confused lamentations. Cf. _R. of L._ 445: "fright her with
well known, made large sums of money in South African
was the man of violence, half animal and half demon; but to her
Leave it alone. You do not understand anything about it."
shook, and his knees and legs trembled. And a high wind blew over the
you free when you were in the Iron Stove in the terrible wild forest,"
young apprentice said, "Don't trouble yourself. I will take my gray
amongst the roots of the tree, and which was full of gold, and lifted
that, cried a warning, "No, no, no! no!" because he thought that many
is he a man to encounter Tybalt?
because Peter does not intend to praise; and irony, they say, would be
"Ah, no," replied she, "it is no Giant, but a disgusting Frog."
12. _Balthasar._ Always accented by S. on the first syllable. The name
Then he caused her to be dressed in rich garments, and she shone in her
inception. For this and for your help in the details all thanks.
play on _crotchets_, as in _Much Ado_, ii. 3. 58. Cf. _carry coals_ in
[_Exeunt Mercutio and Benvolio_
him not unlike some huge moth himself. I was standing watching
It was fixed that the one who was the first to bring some water from a
me an extra pair of eyes upon a very active pair of feet, and
_Friar Laurence._ Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous
undertake the enterprise. He was well received, and in the evening was
he broke off the branch and took it with him.
Being black, put us in mind they hide the fair.
When the King saw him, he said to his huntsman, "Now chase him all day
turned chill and we withdrew into the hut for warmth. There,
They embraced and kissed each other, and the Queen went to the King,
the garish sun." See also _Lear_, i. 1. 111: "the sacred radiance of the
morning, Sir Henry," said he. "I trust that they do not mean that
"What hath this day deserv'd? what hath it done,
upon the earth, forming at one point a mound of some size.  Within the
etc. Duels were frequent in England in the time of S. The matter had
amends for the wrong, allowed him to ask a favor, and promised him the
"Well?"
sense, eloquent reasoning, and noble piety."
Immediately afterward the water parted, and not only the head of
might have been comic were it not for the intensity of feeling
rubbing his hands together with satisfaction. "Don't you think
or not. When it suited him he did not enter an inn at all, but either
1. 17: "much upon this time;" _Rich. III._ v. 3. 70: "Much about
house of the Montagues.
The journey was a swift and pleasant one, and I spent it in
His punishment, however, was not delayed. When he had made a few
the earlier one shows that in the meantime the play "underwent revision,
142. _Three words_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
of a mighty King. She was called Maid Maleen, and was very beautiful.
Here "Mercutio says he will draw Romeo from the _mire of this love_, and
slip of which S. is guilty here. Romeo is said to be _living_ in
_Juliet._ O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
"Now look at her pride," cried the woman's daughter, "to throw about
My roses red, and violets blue,
naughty children, why have you slept so long in the forest?--we thought
as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams.
hither!"
encourage the improvement of various breeds of sheep and cattle.
revised it.
166. _Silver-sweet._ Cf. _Per._ v. 1. 111: "As silver-voic'd." See also
thinking that perhaps there his heart might become lighter. As he
presence may be of assistance to me. Now is the dramatic moment
Her father was a Capilet, and master of the feast.
daughter. And, not knowing how else to help herself in this difficulty,
mouth, than she fell down dead.
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
Through cruell knife that her deare heart did kerve."
good counsel. You are on the way to the Golden Bird. This evening you
"Perhaps some accident has befallen him," said the King, and the next
choice. I must cut your head off, and roast you."
Many had already made the attempt, but in vain. Nevertheless, when the
show that Sir Charles's health has for some time been
supper. I am quite tired."
address, showing that there was very little ink in the bottle.
and hear the flies coughing."
village, and just as Little Red-Cap entered the wood, a Wolf met her.
him when he had been eating secretly in the pantry, "Eat what one can,
The King went away, and did not find out that a false Queen was lying
sharp knife must be quite needful for mending them.  But I think he does
_Juliet._ O Fortune, Fortune! all men call thee fickle;
_Romeo._                         By a name
relatives together. Then the turner spread a cloth in the room, and led
(Comforts such as you can boast,)
Marston, Middleton, and other writers of the time. In George
"_Stop, Little Pot, stop!_"
I come from Lady Juliet.
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
relations and friends. They shall refresh and enjoy themselves for
Darkness there and nothing more.
had a kind heart, he got off his horse and put the three prisoners back
With a monkey on my back,
93. _Sped._ Dispatched, "done for." Cf. _M. of V._ ii. 9. 72: "So
70.  Charing Cross.
"Well, be off, Cousin Longlegs," said the tailor.
"It does."
end to beauty" (Johnson); or, as Mason puts it, "she is poor because she
Devonshire he had been engaged in two affairs of the utmost
Atavism' (_Lancet_ 1882).  'Do We Progress?' (_Journal of
To an impatient child that hath new robes                         30
Jonson tells us, a master cook is--
within itself, but formed merely the interval between two of the
window."
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
bury them in the ground in front of the house, and your fortune will be
to the point where they had found a pathway through the bog. It
THE GOLDEN BIRD
And eke she prayseth much to her the second mariage;
_Nurse._ Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir;
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath                       90
welded the bolts.  They resolved to leave means neither of ingress nor
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
Malone cites both this last passage and _V. and A._ 482 as referring to
black apartment, and, seizing the mummer, whose tall figure stood erect
[Illustration: "WELL," SHE LAUGHED, "HE HAS A CHIN LIKE A THRUSH'S
pumps and steam-engines; and by these inventions, do with ease, what the
quarto has been discovered.
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
rose the huge expanse of the moor, mottled with gnarled and
At length, when it was quite dark, Clever Elsie awoke and when she got
been puzzled by it.
examining my skull that you have done me the honour to call here
children saw them, and cried, "We will not open the door, our mother
received some slight augmentation, and in some few places must have been
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
and cries, "Ah, how beautiful that is! beautiful that is! beautiful,
for my own sake. But now I see that I was never anything but a
imprisoned for his whole life underground.
ten-syllable measure are not included in this enumeration. In the
"Indeed, sir! May I inquire who has the honour to be the first?"
"No, no, the yew alley is on the other side."
the great Grimpen Mire, down in the foul slime of the huge morass
"That was ill done, Hans. You should have stuck the needle in your
path by which I tried to get at the object of my mission. And yet
the candle_ is a very common phrase for being _an idle spectator_. Among
Ovid's _Art of Love_--perhaps in Marlowe's translation:--
loveliness and sensibility is enhanced when we find it overcoming in the
representing the siege of Gibraltar by the Spanish flotilla, and likewise
over 'keep away.'"
Juliet's chamber, where she is discovered apparently dead. After the
intention of starting next day for London, and had ordered
20. _Exile._ For the variable accent (cf. 13 above and 43 below), see on
that he had to be on his guard against the snares of the Nix, and
"Gave me a needle."
filthy beastliness."
SCENE II. _Friar Laurence's Cell_
"Look here, Barrymore," said Sir Henry sternly, "we have made up
88-120. _How oft when men_, etc. "Here, here, is the master example how
"I got a message from the head office that a gent at this address
practice could hold such a position, and such a one would not
his wife. She at once made herself a salad of it, and ate it with much
description here as "improperly put into the mouth of a person agitated
By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
"the everlasting flint." The comparison is natural and apt.
Silver's _Paradoxes of Defence_, 1599: "Signior Rocco, ... thou that
sleep which would not come. Far away a chiming clock struck out
"_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, bleat,
and threw his bundle on his back, and went forth.
anything of the kind, nor could I discover any sign which might
half a dozen guests! Either Capulet has altered his mind strangely, or
cleverly concealed. By encouraging the intimacy he made it
Then the waiting-maid, with many hard words, bade the Princess exchange
at the mouse-hole.
"What did he do?"
The only fish-market in London, to which the fishing-smacks bring their
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
established a right of way through the centre of old Middleton's
"Go, then," said the Flounder, "she has it already."
13.  A Spanish instrument of torture, called the cravat.
sharp turn at every twenty or thirty yards, and at each turn a novel
And yet he lied as he said it, for it chanced that after
He, however, had to serve the Cat, and chop some wood every day. And
set with jewels; besides other crowns and regal ornaments, and some
yesterday. You will say that an important telegram has miscarried
wise.
One-Eye climbed up, but when she was about to lay hold of one of the
had ever yet been seen there, and that the mice had got the upper
found in the late autumn. What a pity that I should have missed
thought, "Ah, there I may be saved!" She got down from the tree, and
Here in the churchyard, yet I will adventure.         [_Retires._
lay in front of us. On the summit, hard and clear like an
"Only one more question, Dr. Mortimer. You say that before Sir
it." He spoke with a sudden passion of earnestness.
time. Already our friend's eyelids shivered and he made a feeble
and that he would sooner or later get the opportunity which he
the house.
"_How fares my child, How fares my Roe?
would be the second day that she had lain in the tomb. The marriage was
Once, the eldest took her to the churchyard, where the finest herbs
should I fly any higher, I am the King?" and began to let himself down
would not lose that stick for the world."
I cannot sum up half my sum of wealth.
_Enter_ JULIET _and_ Nurse
the moor, seems to lie the very centre of that problem which has
he said that, and heard all. At night, when the sleeping Princess was
with white--the sixth with violet.  The seventh apartment was closely
48. _Ethiope's ear._ For the simile, cf. _Sonn._ 27. 11: "Which, like a
Barrymore was crouching at the window with the candle held
Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already;
was of little good, he was forced to follow the fish, and was in
and ran away with it.
And County Paris now she praiseth ten times more,
1. _This speech._ Furness would read "the speech"; but, as the scene
examination of it."
his energies to this all would be well, but there are rumours
twice round her left hand, seized a pair of scissors with the right,
had attended a succession of difficult and important cases, so
"But if you saw him so seldom and wrote so seldom, how did he
"What new conditions?"
By holy marriage. When and where and how
back for them.
Then he got up and clambered out of the cave, into the forest, thinking:
Wolf said, "If you will not do it, I will devour you." Then the miller
have the best of it."
So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating
screen against the weather. My heart leaped within me as I saw
Things have taken a turn which I could not have anticipated. In
25. _Button._ Steevens quotes _The Return from Parnassus_, 1606:
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
went in, the peasant nudged his wife, and said, "Grethe, that is the
books and papers are deposited every evening.
indeed, have written the speech as rapidly and carelessly as he makes
v. 3. 188 below. _Misadventured_ occurs only in prol. 7 above.
belonging to his father and mother, and said, "God grant that our
troubling Mr. Holmes with trifles of this kind?"
Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,                80
THE FROG-KING; OR, IRON HENRY
shining with gold. The bird alighted on the tree, and had just plucked
"Not on the very day of Sir Charles's death?"
date till death shall never end," etc.
and more luxuriant vegetation spoke of a richer, if a damper,
"Then we had the visit from our friends next morning, shadowed
far away. When the time came for her to be married, and she had to
glad to have turned his horse's head.  Riding slowly in
And he stretched himself by the fire and growled contentedly and
order to show her violent excitement, and thereby explain her conduct."
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
None but for some, and yet all different.
no guide to point the track. Tell me then what it was that you
_Prince._ What fear is this which startles in our ears?
Tired and dismal, for a show:
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.                     [_Exeunt._
till you began to pull it by the tail, and beat it about the horns; and
speed, and did not even cut his skin or injure a hair on his body.
8. _Lace._ Cf. _Macb._ ii. 3. 118: "His silver skin lac'd with his
4. _God forbid!_ Staunton suggests that the Nurse uses _lady-bird_ as a
warm ashes, and the Cock perched himself upon a beam of the roof. Being
The flush had faded in an instant, and a deathly face was before
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate.
"Where have you the calf, Hans?"
To-night she's mew'd up to her heaviness.
blackmailing case is absorbing all his faculties. And yet this
"What are they? Sheep-pens?"
Oh! what a multitude they seem'd, these flowers of London town!
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?                       70
me. I cannot leave him."
"And he made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with
Cf. Coleridge: "The character of the Nurse is the nearest of anything in
From my books surcease of sorrow--sorrow for the lost Lenore--
water rising, or something."
vegetables and bread from each plate and drank a drop of wine out of
guess, than when they started.  The most of them would by
8. _Alexandrines_, or verses of twelve syllables, with six accents,
"Never leave me, and I will never leave you."
as they loved one another very much, they all three stayed together in
in it, or seems even to notice it. When her mother first refers to the
was by enchantment a Wild Man, but you have set me free. All the
it cannot be denied that the prosperity of the whole poor, bleak
ordinary way; as in _star-cross'd_, line 6, and _misadventur'd_, line 7,
down on a little hard straw.
"_Foot-bridge, break not,
in the aid of the police you will find how seriously you are
180. _A tackled stair._ That is, a rope-ladder. Cf. "ladder-tackle" in
evidence, corroborated by that of several friends, tends to
shoe on.
And beg your pardon. Pardon, I beseech you!
and ate and drank as much as her heart desired, and then ordered the
Good-night!"
of the public. I told them that they would have occasion to
But the little brother had knelt by the brook, and had bent down and
In dear employment. Therefore hence, be gone;
like Dun in the mire."
7.  The Bellman.
_Capulet._ My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night.
for the night," thought she, and went up to the light. It was not long
the age and the country. Yet she loves her daughter, and there is a
wanted the Pot to stop cooking, but did not know the word.
Afterward, they came to a meadow, and she asked again, "To whom does
aside the whole grim story of Sir Charles's death, we had a line
He packed up his bundle, but when he was without the gate, he could not
He Said, "Little Table Set Thyself!"                  _Frontispiece_
_Juliet._ O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
did not know what was the matter with her, but, by and by, she found
"But why should you wish to go into so horrible a place?"
"Because this stick, though originally a very handsome one has
hours. She, likewise, made nothing of it.
remembrance of the great fire of London, which broke out in _Pudding
it as = angry. The word occurs again in _K. John_, v. 1. 12: "This
Perhaps so, but then you might not be more healthy, useful, or happy,
Synce she pursueth him, and him defames by wrong:
Then music with her silver sound'--
the evening the stag vanished from his sight, and when the Gold-Child
"He lets gold drop from his mouth," answered the miller. "If you set him
Fie, fie, thou sham'st thy shape, thy love, thy wit,
expression.
Then a very surprising circumstance occurred, which I shall tell
Farewell; buy food, and get thyself in flesh.--
the grave!  It is too late now to be dutiful to her, for she cannot open
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
Now a poor and weary hack,
pierce through it. In this he was to shut himself up when the candles
[Picture: The Flower-pot man]
They were terrified and wanted to hide themselves. One sprang under the
In the meantime, it knocked a second time, and cried:
Cf. Greene, _Metamorphosis_: "What! Eriphila, Jove laughs at the
however, but ran back to the well with his pitcher, again drew some
"I guess we are aiding and abetting a felony, Watson? But, after
"The old gentleman with the telescope, no doubt. I could not make
114, _Ham._ iii. 1. 158, 159, _A. and C._ iii. 2. 15-18, etc.
When Dr. Mortimer had finished reading this singular narrative he
it answered at last:
ought?"
124. _Which then_, etc. "The plain meaning seems to be that Benvolio,
"When proud-pied April dress'd in all his trim
cabbage.
And drink it off; and, if you had the strength
parish to make him open it. At others he will with his own hands
representative of a class--just as in describing one larch-tree, you
privilege of bringing salt, fish, coals, fruit, and other goods on shore,
_Nurse._ Madam!
when it rained the little sister said, "Heaven and our hearts are
her. "I will give you three days' time," said he; "if by that time you
use.
"When the King heard that, he fell into a passion and said, 'If you
Every parish in England formerly used to have its _Pope_ or _Guy_ carried
Then Lina said, "Bird-Found, never leave me, and I will never leave
no trouble to fatten herself, and has been waiting long enough to be
last you the day," and thought, "You will die of cold and hunger
_Juliet._                        Feeling so the loss,
as this."
And for he did the rest in wisdome farre exceede
more than 5308 tons.  The abutments are of stone.  The bridge forms a
was held with great show and splendor. But the wicked Queen was also
master and sir Goslin are guzzling; they are dabbling together fathom
but it sucked him down at last. Even in dry seasons it is a
and such a village, and must know what had become of the money. So the
know not how to choose a man. Romeo! no, not
_Friar Laurence._                That's a certain text.
In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier                          110
Something brown was rolling and tossing among the green sedges.
looked around on every side and exclaimed, "Oh, alas! where am I?"
they came to the hill and had to climb, and the stones rolled down
the rain and defaced by the clogs of curious peasants. Oh, Dr.
The woman became bitterly unkind to the man's daughter, and day by day
the top. Then he cried, but could not hear his own words:
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
There, however, the dame was quite active, more so than any one would
The Problem
houses of these forgotten folk, with their graves and the huge
what he regarded as our desertion.
and all disappears. I watched everything closely. She put two of my
_Juliet._ As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
By what right you take me on board of your tender?
and had run to the little hazel-tree. There she had taken off her
how decked out she is!" they cried, and laughed, and led her into the
gentleman threw up the trap, and he cried that I should drive
flickering flame. Never in the delirious dream of a disordered
I saw by the baronet's clouded brow that he was deeply hurt by
To help me after?--I will kiss thy lips;
of you and rosemary, that it would do you good to
large stick to attack thieves.  I suppose my readers would think it very
(Tuesday) morning. The visit to the Friar is evidently on the same day;
"Yes, the setting is a worthy one. If the devil did desire to
"Ha, ha, my boy, a very much more important matter than that!
closed?"
Watson," said he; "but I have never seen a place to compare with
tear them to pieces."
where we shall find him. If you have ever aided him in evil, help
knives and forks, and seven little mugs. Against the wall stood seven
Stage, and Seruingmen come forth with_ [or _with their_] _Napkins_."
a beautiful tall tree on which hung the most magnificent pears. She
Here we have a view of Blackfriars' Bridge, and, from the great bustle
off."
_Romeo._ Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was
Cover the table with something to eat!_"
Then he was afraid and went. But he was quite faint, and shivered and
shining out of the darkness, and was terrified and ran away. A bear
But the Little Man said, "No, something that is alive, is dearer to me
reward of a few halfpence, from those whom they assist.
And keep in tune with Heaven, till God ere long
"I can't give you the name, sir, but I can give you the initials.
iii. 5, 47, which the shepherdess recalls as a sneer: "He said mine eyes
But the Queen, believing that little Snow-White was dead, could not but
health.
"How does she live?"
an enthusiast in your line of thought, I perceive, sir, as I am
And he shall signify from time to time                           170
Good night, good night! parting is such sweet sorrow
Open to me!_"
upon its victim, hurl him to the ground, and worry at his throat.
hair whistled in the wind.
While I have omitted most of the notes on textual variations, I have
Hath Death lain with thy wife. See, there she lies,
that the misfortunes of the hero and heroine were mainly due to their
danger, which is the more terrible because I am unable to define
of such intense interest to us. The fellow had evidently made
"If you can perform such deeds as that, you are no gardener's boy. Tell
4. 234: "Alas, poor ape, how thou sweatest!"
movements." Out of the envelope he took a half-sheet of foolscap
convict and our other strange experiences upon the moor.
followed in which he showed her for the first time that she had a
SCENE II.--2. _Twenty cunning cooks._ Ritson says: "Twenty cooks for
play.
open and the true Queen walk in. She took the child out of the cradle,
his pursuit with a mixture of admiration for his extraordinary
the ear with a love-song; the very pin of his
Footnotes
_Romeo._ This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
all had fared with her, he immediately recognized his beloved wife by
110. _Set up my everlasting rest._ That is, remain forever. To _set up
Don't you remember yesterday,
"How was it that no one else saw it?"
onward full of joy, and soon came to the little house. The geese were
22. _Prick-song._ Music sung from notes (Schmidt); so called from the
one of these stone huts would give him a hiding-place. But there
May be a scavenger, one day.
King!"
pocket, and gave her what he could afford.
_Mercutio._ No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a
in _T.N._ i. 3. 129, and to beef and mustard in _M.N.D._ iii. 1. 197 and
_Paris._                     Monday, my lord.
cut the tree down, but no one was on it.
down to them, and as this also was to no use, her garters, and little
S._ ii. 1. 158: "While she did call me rascal fiddler" [fidd(e)ler];
birth was only the innocent cause of what had happened to her brothers.
frequently chronicled in these columns.
upon which you wish to consult me?"
rolled from his heart since it was no longer needful for him to kill
milkmaid, they must work hard, and rise early in the morning, instead of
_Romeo._ How well my comfort is reviv'd by this!
which we had been involved appeared to be forgotten, and he was
was obliged to have good food, and to be taken every day to pasture.
the chairman read a paper by Mr. Ruskin on the word _fret_ in this
So Three-Eyes went to Two-Eyes, and said, "I will go with you and see
is a joke of Peter's. Cf. _T.G. of V._ iii. 2. 85: "A deploring dump."
A precious ring, a ring that I must use
SWEET PORRIDGE
had supplied and hardly any reference to my mission. No doubt his
"Then," said the councilors, "she must yield to force."
Lady Capulet. What say you? can you love the gentleman?
After dinner, the guest asked what he owed. The host did not see why he
admissible rhyme in Shakespeare's day.
_Tybalt._ It fits when such a villain is a guest;
Then the Witch cried out in a passion, "What! will you slay my little
"You've been so kind to us, sir, that I should like to do the
moon shining through or reflected from the breaking clouds _Brow_ is put
"Nothing," she replied, "I was only thinking of Maid Maleen."
"Early eighteenth century, unless it is a forgery."
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
the body. He did not observe any. But I did--some little distance
_Sampson._ Let us take the law of our sides; let
like that is not amiss."
house?"
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
And now to sorrow is retornde the ioy of euery one;
BY
The King's Son, full of joy, said, "You are with me," and told her what
have so fair a house," etc.
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
_Nurse._ Ay, forsooth.
words with her alone. She was glad to meet me, but when she did
One day, the woman was standing by this window and looking down
party-walls.
will do. Address to Mr. Barrymore, Baskerville Hall. What is the
front of us."
and just grounds; and to me also it appears natural, however critics may
The heavens do lower upon you for some ill;                       90
truth." For the noun, see _Macb._ i. 7. 74.
those who revelled. And thus too, it happened, perhaps, that before the
anger; it is incredulous amazement, succeeded by the extremity of scorn
deserving the halter." Nares and Douce see the same allusion in
more beautiful than the other, entered, and all was full of pomp and
"Never mind, will do better next time."
It now seemed to the young man just a little serious, when he heard
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
course I did the same.
And it was at this moment that there occurred a most strange and
"My footprint, I presume?"
A fifth quarto was published in 1637.
wife."
has cleared up the situation very much. But the moor with its
could be met. It meant everything to me--peace of mind, happiness,
Sir William Baskerville, who was Chairman of Committees of the
Which as they kiss consume; the sweetest honey
that should happen, all of you shall dance about in the air." And he
_Friar Laurence._ Hark, how they knock!--Who's there?--Romeo, arise;
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.--
is with her lover, her father confessor, or her nurse--when, in short,
"That is true," said Sir Henry. "Well, Barrymore--"
when he saw us, and then came on again.
_Enter_ Prince, _attended_; MONTAGUE, CAPULET, _their_ Wives, _and
extraordinary question."
wrinkled, like one who is at his wit's ends what to do.
_Juliet._ Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.             160
that the breach is quite healed, and that we are to dine at
London needs this work more than Thames Street and Billingsgate; for,
who was moving among the broken ground. It was Stapleton with his
"The cunning rascal! He knew our number, knew that Sir Henry
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
practice and with the constant appeals which reach me from many
72. _Long sword._ The weapon used in active warfare; a lighter and
"Why not?" said the woman; "go to him at once. I must be King!"
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife.
to her work, and educated her in all that is good.
374 and _Ham._ v. 1. 265.
_Lady Capulet._ Well, think of marriage now; younger than you
no carriage should attempt to pass, for that is the pavior's signal that
morning we will take the children out into the forest to where it is
_Sampson._ Yes, better, sir.
Till I conveniently could send to Romeo;
together his people, and did not know whether or not he could overcome
_Capulet._ Well, get you gone; o' Thursday be it then.--          30
She kept the house in order for them. In the mornings they went to the
looking about her nor resting, and the seven years were almost past.
_Juliet._ What's he that now is going out of door?
7, 8. These lines are found only in the 1st quarto, and were first
gates are shut at night, the Yeoman Porter, with a serjeant and six
every instant was bringing nearer. With tingling nerves but a
during the day. But the woman could not fall asleep at all, and flung
looking-glass, and when she stood in front of it and looked at herself
The King said, "Your song has pleased me so well that I will give you
cabbage-garden, girt round by walls, so that he came softly to the
"Then you will have me die of grief," answered the Roe. "When I hear
and cried:
The Old Woman had only pretended to be so kind. She was really a wicked
To our American boys and girls is offered this volume which is really
eagerly occupied with their affairs, and showing their anxiety by their
In any case you will hear from me again in the course of the next
they had stolen the money, and that they were willing to restore it.
guarded by soldiers; and when these gates are opened of a morning, the
"Who?"
I trust, sir, that I have not inadvertently--"
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
_Juliet._ Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
wrote _Romeus and Juliet_ (1562) and the next year published a book
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
start some other where?"
with his shrill voice, "Could you not have done it more carefully! You
The poor girl thought, "I can no longer remain here. I will go and seek
And yet not fall, so light is vanity.                             20
muttered rumble, musical and yet menacing, rising and falling
wise one. I have ample evidence that you are being dogged in
innkeeper had cheated them of their beautiful wishing-gifts on the last
I bade her come.--What, lamb! what, lady-bird!--
His heart was, I knew, affected, and the constant anxiety in
101. _Scant._ Not elsewhere used adverbially by S. _Scantly_ occurs only
these are a really very fine series of portraits."
25. _Give me leave._ Let me alone, let me rest. See on i. 3. 7 above.
best ancient philosophers might have thought impossible.  When one of the
quarto; but _with = by_ is so common in S. that the reading of all the
so long in want and poverty. To-day, however, the sun is shining on me
forward to meet her, lifted the waiting-maid from her horse, and
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
wound.
"Had Sir Charles received any other letters in the same writing?"
and bad. In this way a shoemaker and a tailor once met with each other
_R. of L._ 1371: "the conceited painter," etc.
effects.  He disregarded the _decora_ of mere fashion.  His plans were
Not yet enjoy'd. So tedious is this day
little girl thought to herself, "It is a dark night and no one sees me.
an egg is full of meat, and yet thy head hath been
of the town, and is thought to be the most singular and magnificent line
and crowding in, and alighted amongst the ashes. And the doves nodded
_Friar Laurence._                Benedicite!
someone had passed that perilous way before us. From amid a tuft
There have been decorators and furnishers up from Plymouth, and
great old-fashioned fireplace behind the high iron dogs a
In the evening when he wanted to go home, he asked, "Goat, have you had
As in this glorious and well-foughten field
about the well with their mother.
_Mercutio._                                He is wise,
_Mercutio._ If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.--
[Illustration]
fastened by a black pin in the centre. Cf. Marlowe, _Tamburlane_,
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
his departure for London. The thing takes shape, Watson. It
nipped, and the effect of the whole place was mean and
iii. 2. 49, where there is a play upon the expression. Steevens quotes
been standing at the top of the castle, and had not seen everything
A sort of Vagabonds, Rascals, and _Run-awayes_,
But as year after year went by, and the Nix did not show herself again,
5. In many instances in Shakespeare words must be _lengthened_ in order
band round their neck, complete their antique uniform.
and the normal form of this blank verse is illustrated by the second
Then she related all that had befallen her, and how because she had
By unions married, do offend thine ear."
Give me my sin again.
For convenient comparison I quote the later text here:--
"Grace and remembrance [rememb(e)rance] be to you both!" etc. See also
Therefore stay yet, thou need'st not to be gone.
Go thither, and with unattainted eye
been kind to us, and I feel as if it would be treating you
and feeling. Music is not an absolute necessity of verse; the metrical
But she told them what a handsome husband she had, and how well off she
the coach, and drove away with him.
"Come down to us," said they. "We will not do you any harm."
become insolent again. He boasts that he will copy in wax the whole of
you may sleep a little. We are going into the forest to cut wood. In
Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
rode here, cut off, for it vexed me on the way." In reality, she was
again. Then she said:
to leave it any more.
THE THREE LUCK-CHILDREN
[Illustration: THE "MEASURE"]
and begged that they would set him and the sexton free. But they had
tin when the bronze sword began to supersede the stone axe. Look
no reason why we should take anyone into our confidence. Tomorrow
Then the old man took leave of him.
the music had become hushed at the waving of his hand.
parson, running on foot behind three girls. He was astonished at this,
and had not thought that any one would come there at such a late hour.
many other things, which must be used before it is fit to swim.  What a
way. I speak now not as a medical man but as a trustee and
It put me in a most awkward position. I was at a loss what to say
a fancy for some."
I knew already that Sir Charles Baskerville had made Stapleton
use," said he, "he will be less likely to find the Golden Bird than his
Sir Henry smiled. "I don't know much of British life yet, for I
142. _Importun'd._ Accented on the second syllable, as regularly in S.
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride."
Next morning, the little Gray Man came to the eldest, beckoned to him,
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
"What effect do you think it will have upon his plans now that he
But the Huntsman had paid heed to their words, and as soon as they
In place where he did lie."
details must never interfere with the investigation of a case. I
well."
_Romeo._ With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
for us than for him. He has a bird's heart about him, by means of which
In _Much Ado_ and _A.Y.L._, we also find a few lines, but none at all in
too heavy for the little duck. She shall take us across, one after the
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,                        130
look to the plate.--Good thou, save me a piece of marchpane; and, as
Thereupon she closed her eyes, and when she was laid in the earth, the
this dirty hovel. You might have wished for a small cottage for us. Go
was caught too fast.
brother's death;" _T.A._ iv. 2. 114: "The emperor, in his rage, will
good fortune."
name. Excuse my curiosity, but often in calling upon one friend
game now?"
lenten pie, that is something stale and hoar ere it be
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
Mercutio speak it.
Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
_Escalus_: i. 1(23); iii. 1(16); v. 3(36). Whole no. 75.
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
to penetrate the Grimpen Mire, and so had found a safe
The Full Moon Came: She Combed Her Long Black Hair With
puzzled myself. Our friend's title, his fortune, his age, his
"I have sent a report from Grimpen to Princetown as to the death
an Angel from Heaven had entered.
_Mercutio._ And but one word with one of us?                      40
My tale is done, there runs a mouse, whosoever catches it, may make
It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore--
_Enter_ ROMEO
IV._ v. 2. 3, _Macb._ iv. 3. 179, _A. and C._ ii. 5. 33, etc. See also
And tell me who is he with vysor in his hand
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
bed, and he said, "Who has been getting into my bed?"
The little bird, too, is very unwilling to let himself be seen, because
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne,
one of thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole
The most you sought was her promotion,
"which gifts,
Did softly press the rushes," etc.
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love,
Have lost a brace of kinsmen; all are punish'd.
responsibility and the mystery were both becoming too much for my
master is the great rich Capulet; and if you be not
"Hardly any, I think."
house, and when the Prince approached her, she got up, went to meet
All night for lesser cause and ne'er been sick.                   10
Shakespeare let it stand when revising his work some years afterwards.
to an anonymous letter sent to Lord Monteagle.  In a cellar under the
"Little Red-Cap," replied the Wolf. "She is bringing cake and wine.
the utter want of taste and refinement in those who, with coarse
Thus speaking, Fortunato possessed himself of my arm. Putting on a mask
of a blow, you'll never win the house."
82. _Like he._ The inflections of pronouns are often confounded by S.
Buy my water-cresses young.
while Holmes and I went back with the baronet to Baskerville
"Yes," said she, "I am Pope."
to shew the sun who ever keepeth one course; in speaking of inconstancy,
which Shakspere used for his _Richard III._, he found the passage (p.
against the cold blue sky. He looked round him with a furtive and
All was brought to pass successfully, and the King's Son carried off
of them there was one which retained sufficient roof to act as a
stage had no movable painted scenery.
that the man might not see it.
but, I pray, can you read any thing you see?
"Good-bye, Grethel."
have been within a few yards of us. But at last we could see
Sir Henry has evidently died from the fall. But, by heavens,
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
She opened her eyes again.
One morning, a handsome young man was going through the forest. The sun
This agrees with the preceding dates. The conversation in iii. 4 is late
her heart became full of love for him, and they lived to a great age in
_Romeo._                         As if that name,
such a place at such a time! And what deep and earnest purpose
Having displeas'd my father, to Laurence' cell,                  230
making the action drag.
greatest difficulties is a high wind.  In October, 1812, a poor man,
and hastened after her with nimble steps. He had not gone far before he
for he had for some days been expecting that recent events would
to go, but yet he went.
that the door was opened for him, and was shut again at once.
to find the Golden Horse? But all at once he saw his old friend the Fox
Never was seen so black a day as this!
of the fifteenth century, whose offer to poison Romeo, in revenge for
The next morning, when the two girls got up, there stood before the
_Gregory._ No.
printed in rough characters. But the _Times_ is a paper which is
London, and amid the millions of this great city it is difficult
"There is something for your dinner, but do not eat it up before then,
for lost time, and that events are now crowding thick and fast
more than that,' said he, 'for Hugo Baskerville passed me
not help yourself."
found their child, who had grown tall and beautiful.
the folk-lorist, Andrew Lang. The Hunt version is considered a most
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
They are bestowde; els in the same no other corps may lye.
"So it was, sir. And now it's an old black one."
badly. You will fare ill. When they see that you are all of gold and
130. _Wash they_, etc. That is, let them wash, etc. Some eds. put an
See _A.Y.L._ ii. 7. 156, _Macb._ iv. 3. 170, etc.
[Picture: The Mansion House]
They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
formalities of a garrison are observed, though the interior now resembles
man should find the money for such an object, and that though he
"Mister, sir, Mister--a humble M.R.C.S."
"Whither away so early, Little Red-Cap?"
tenderness with the deep gloom of the speaker's inmost heart."
_Benvolio._ Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
173. _By and by._ Presently. See on ii. 2. 151 above, and cf. iii. 3. 76
38. _Short in our provision._ Very feminine and housewifely! Cf. _Lear_,
above.
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
"Yes, I did write it," she cried, pouring out her soul in a
should let us know before evening whether Barrymore is at his
horror that he was changed into a Donkey. Still as his hunger became
father insisted that she should name something. So she said at last,
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
And leave her in fooles paradise."
"Dear, dear, that's bad!" said Holmes, shaking his head.
expresses it in _Ion_,--
invited to the wedding, she said to the Lion, "This time, I will not go
the whole summer."
Their singular dress consists of a coat of blue cloth, formed something
And when the tailor came next morning, the whole of the splendid
theatrical audience, it is only to a sympathetic listener who
"It is a formidable difficulty, and I fear that you ask too much
candle, and, taking the glistening fiery eyes of the Cat for live
very interesting document, which must have been put together and
MERCUTIO.--Dryden quotes a traditional saying concerning Mercutio, that
The jaws of darkness do devour it up;
are we to get twelve stolid jurymen to know it? What signs are
So, as he wants his money more than he does his goods, he sells them to
must be your very special study."
she really wanted me to go, the only way to work it was for her
which grows under the sun, and am carrying it about with me."
below.
it into a cup and gave it to the maiden, who was to present it to the
mad dog" (or "a mad horse," as Howell gives it). Cf. Spenser, _F.Q._ ii.
brightly, and the white pebbles, which lay in front of the house,
door was opened, and just as the girl was standing beneath the doorway,
reasons as well. So, between the old sinner and the young one the
[Picture: The Knife-grinder]
fathomed. He could hide his hound, but he could not hush its
When he was above, he said to the Little Man, "Now go and bind the old
_Lady Montague._ O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?
contain myself for sorrow. Many a time I console myself with the hope
and who she was.
and he pulled the trigger. But he missed the Fox, who stretched out his
Cross the close street, that then the pavior's art
is not suitable for me."
their distance; but some dreadful accidents have happened, by children
_Friar Laurence._ You say you do not know the lady's mind;
to-morrow they would go together into his kingdom.
_Romeo._ Nurse!
And even at this day the tombe is to be seene;
"Behave well, Hans."
we have seen, very anxious to watch him, they are equally anxious
observed by Shakespeare in his plays. Read _Romeo and Juliet_: all is
With instruments upon them fit to open                         200
At least civil treatment from you in return."
"We have still the cabman who drove the spy."
They took her pretty clothes away from her, put an old gray bedgown
Where Juliet lives, and every cat and dog                         30
He lay down, but did not drink the wine.
short, and, regarded as a necessary part of the routine of the ancient
66-69. _Signior Martino_, etc. Probably meant to be prose, but some
Henry--indeed I didn't."
NOTES
Mr. James Desmond?"
"But Dr. Mortimer has his practice to attend to, and his house is
was a large dew-drop, as big as the finest pearl.
been given. Schmidt defines _broad_ here as "plain, evident." Dowden
I have cause to know it well,
clapped his ear to the ground. "Thank God, I think that I hear
151. _Blaze._ Make public. Cf. _blazon_ in ii. 6. 26 above, and
that his presence there was more natural than your own. The
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
and her violent father, but, like a petted child, alternately cajoles
A bad cooke that cannot his owne fingers lick."
audience, nor even a confidante; and I confess I have been shocked at
terrible conclusion. The incidents of the next few days are
Edward the First.
celebrated. So the poor woman went up and placed herself by the door of
"yet a stranger in the world" (has not yet "come out," in modern
that I was able to induce him to discuss the details of the
And the head replies:
itself had been able to extinguish, was ended by the piteous death of
well known to us."
Then the man presented himself and said, "I will, however, let my
pry and steal. And what once gets into their hands and in their caves,
it was not love that she would talk about, and she wouldn't have
suggest, for example, that a presentation to a doctor is more
transformed, she into a Toad, he into a Frog.
willingly entered her service. She did everything to the Old Woman's
the means by which the fatal feud of the two families is brought to an
The fisherman took the Fish home with him, and did as it had bidden him.
Like Sunbeams                                                333
"We are coming to that. You have nothing else to report to us
command a view--the same hill which is cut into the dark quarry.
boot striking upon a stone. Then another and yet another, coming
mock me!" But it was of no use, she had to yield unless she chose to
night, and were all merry and glad. The tailor locked away needle and
LITTLE SNOW-WHITE                                                159
[Picture: The Twopenny-post Boy]
His mother gave him a cake made with water and baked in the cinders,
hurried and secret marriage, does not oppose or discourage it on any
"I could not call you in, Mr. Holmes, without disclosing these
wall, and drove him out with blows.
swallowed them, than she was deprived of her human shape, and she ran
39. _Empty._ Hungry. Cf. _V. and A._ 55: "Even as an empty eagle, sharp
This is unquestionably from the earliest draft of the play, and is a
The King said, "Ah, heavens! what is this? To-morrow night I will watch
to the true, the real sentiment which succeeds to it. This incident,
So he bought beautiful dresses, pearls and jewels for the two
Where is the county's page that rais'd the watch?--
and laughing and wringing my hand. Could this be my stern,
under such beautie and rare comelinesse, disloyaltie and treason may
I looked back at the platform when we had left it far behind and
doubt that Stapleton recruited his waning resources in this
"It was all very confused. Sir Charles had evidently stood there
with a spindle, and fall down dead." And, without saying a word more,
_Juliet._ Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
it more effective. Both of the women concerned in the case, Mrs.
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
The appearance of our visitor was a surprise to me, since I had
courage must be deficient if I could not throw some further light
it, and wrote her name upon it in golden letters, and that she was a
83. _Cock-a-hoop._ "Of doubtful origin" (_New. Eng. Dict._), though the
certain passport to death. {14}  Charles the Second cleared the ditch,
clear recollection of the telegram.
paths ever onward, until at length he reached a great city. There he
like a tailor at his wedding. The mother, however, said, "Now go and
who hires a hackney coach in London, to notice what number is on the
In the days when wishing was having, a King's Son was enchanted by an
when you expect me to solve it. The past and the present are
into the country. And when they had come to the meadow, she sat down
he had given her at the church-door.
Chapter 13.
"Husband," said she, poking him in the ribs with her elbows, "wake up!
with his treasures, the Fox said, "Now you shall reward me for my help."
have spent nearly all my time in the States and in Canada. But I
"_Boil, Little Pot, boil!_"
and pursue the six, and ordered them to take the sack away from the
bold a thing" for a girl of fourteen to have done it otherwise. Mrs.
That I cannot quite _hear_ him) I think I can guess:
from home, a beggar in the streets,--the only alternative a criminal
He went on farther, and in the great hall he saw the whole of the
accustomed to peace and order (Delius).
confounds the word with _anatomy._ S. uses it only in these four
Barrymore couple?"
61. _When and where and how_, etc. An instance of the so-called
"Another way I have to man my haggard,
stable, and cried, "Haensel, stretch out your finger that I may feel if
place for a man to be private," said he, "but, by thunder, the
author's manuscript, but from a transcript, the writer of which was not
forth on the earth, one day they both went out with their flocks, and
As living here and you no use of him.
[Illustration]
will like it, dear Animals," said she, "and you shall have a refreshing
whatever you want for it."
venture to take a risk with the certainty that he would bravely
"I'll join you in a walk, with pleasure," said his companion.
Nares quotes Massinger, _Unnatural Combat_:--
_Mercutio._ Help me into some house, Benvolio,
to have only nine syllables, but _division_ is a quadrisyllable; and so
table came to pass, he was changed into stone.
which I perceive you are afflicted.  The vaults are insufferably damp.
It is enough I may but call her mine.
HERE is Farmer Clodpole, who lives a hundred miles from London, coming to
beautiful and fair of face, but vile and black of heart. Now began a
"It is murder, Watson--refined, cold-blooded, deliberate murder.
store," as Dowden suggests. Cf. _V. and A._ 1019: "For he, being dead,
Mr. Holmes, and there is no man upon earth who can prevent me
lunch, and I set off at once upon my return journey, taking the
owners. Cf. _K. John_, ii. 1. 194: "A canker'd grandam's will."
was taken away, which caused the parish-officers to advertise a reward of
been done the first time, and they danced until their shoes were worn
_Romeo._ I do protest, I never injur'd thee,                      70
for ever since I have been here I have been conscious of shadows
"Yes."
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,
as the old wife foretold!" and he took the gun from his shoulder, aimed
Cartwright was frequently watching you, so that I was able to
But nature makes that mean," etc.
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
the busy scene that daily passes in the rotunda, amongst the buyers and
delight, looking eagerly about him and asking countless
Title: City Scenes
The bodies dead, removed from vaulte where they did dye,
for _Les Huguenots_. Have you heard the De Reszkes? Might I
door just over the lock with the flat of his foot and it flew
_shooting so trim_. He thinks the allusion to the _beggar-maid_ also
The knife-grinder, with many more
Here's to my love! [_Drinks._]--O true apothecary!             119
manager and tell him that I go right straight out of this hotel."
the nature of my soul, will not suppose, however, that I gave utterance
other early eds. may be accepted. See on i. 1. 148 and i. 2. 49 above.
And torn by many a spray,
When the Old Woman heard of the exquisite salad, she was greedy, and
which Our Lady washes the Christ-child's little shirts, and wants to
13.  The Armory.
sharing with the children the humor and the deep but simple ethical
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day.
ordered them to release him, and every one was to go out, as she wished
_Enter_ BENVOLIO _and_ MERCUTIO
opportunities to the scientific expert. That gravel page upon
stage, is excellently managed. Nothing can be more naturally exhibited
substantially.
the earthlier portion of himself" (Clarke). Cf. _Sonn._ 146. 1: "Poor
chalk, ate this and made his voice soft with it. Then he came back,
"The hunt is up, the morn is bright and grey." The term was also applied
into the blackness of the moor. For some minutes he stood
Coombe Tracey had written to Sir Charles Baskerville and made an
forsaken! She sat down and cried, but at last she took courage and
in which their beds stood side by side.
[Picture: The Admiralty Office]
fountain, playing, my golden ball fell into the water. And because I
tell you, Watson, this time we have got a foeman who is worthy of
_Mercutio._ Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word;       40
to stand; therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st
upper teeth) make it to knocke."
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
"Why do you stand gaping there?" cried the Dwarf, and his ashen-gray
Farewell.                                              [_Exeunt._
which she did not like to touch, and which was now to sleep in her
road and stream wound up through a valley dense with scrub oak
and monasteries in Europe--but Juliet's light step will not thus wear
argument's sake, that we had him arrested tonight, what on earth
the shadowy moor, half silver and half gloom. Far away, miles
was the Court in all its splendor, and his wife was sitting on a high
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
"Indeed, sir!" said he, pointing out over the wide-stretching
thinner than that of Frankland. Barrymore it might possibly have
_Spare not the cost_ seems more appropriate to the former. It may,
the vast assembly, as if with one impulse, shrank from the centres of
seem quite to have made up your mind whether it's a case for a
Unwillingly to school."
keep my hand upon all the strings.
For I come hither arm'd against myself.
beaten as addle as an egg for quarrelling. Thou
Towards Phoebus' lodging; such a waggoner
nowhere else in those plays, and never anywhere after 1597 or 1598.
would also be the heir to the money unless it were willed
Should without eyes see pathways to his will!
destination with the utmost regularity.
"Then I will do it."
_Juliet._ I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
and had bewitched all the brooks in the forest.
76. _Endart._ Not elsewhere used by S. and perhaps of his own coining.
_Nurse._                         I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
me to it. It was done against my will, for I love you dearly. Your
picking up peas, and saying, "It must have rained peas, last night."
that is fractured. The plantain was supposed to have other virtues.
"He cannot escape us, madam."
_Nurse._ Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! Fast, I warrant her, she.--
buckets of water into the house that I asked her why she was doing so.
augmenting the fresh morning's dew," because Rosaline will not return
Once she gave her a little cap of red velvet, which suited her so well
"No," said the man, "I did catch a Flounder, who said he was an
from ships, boats, or barges, belongs to the Company of Fellowship
He stopped suddenly and stared fixedly up over my head into the
successes!"
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore--
Are situated in Wapping, between Ratcliffe Highway and the Thames.  One
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
_Benvolio._       Soft! I will go along;
S. _Faintly_ = "in a weak mechanical way" (Ulrici). _Entrance_ is a
13. _Teen._ Sorrow; used here for the play on _fourteen_. Cf. _V. and
Mrs. Lyons upon the evening before, for Dr. Mortimer remained
You've set off from your office, and rode without stopping,
was dead before ever the brute overtook him. But we have to prove
the moment of their deliverance was come. But no stroke of the hammer
whole opinion out of consideration for the feelings of the
Be not her maid, since she is envious.
iii. 3. 77.
against the yellow light of the hall. She came out and helped the
Then they said, "The two Golden Lilies remain here. By them you may see
crypt, in which the foulness of the air caused our flambeaux rather to
herself, and brought tender grass for the Roe, who ate out of her hand,
Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons, were left with a strong suspicion
him not a hilding, hold me no more in your respect," etc. See also iii.
the wood.
We rushed over the brow of the hill, and there was our man
Peele, _Old Wives' Tale_: "Bounce, quoth the guns;" and Heywood, _Fair
Then the Kid had to run home and fetch scissors, and a needle and
herself on the bench by the stove, where she began to warm herself and
the heart of the sulphur rose. Admiration was, I repeat, the
occurs in _C. of E._, _Much Ado_, and _M. of V._
Then they lived happily, and all prospered with them until their death.
The gallant, young, and noble gentleman,
[Illustration: "DON'T BE IMPATIENT," SAID SNOW-WHITE, "I WILL HELP YOU"]
As she had now no spindle, the girl took the weaver's shuttle in her
statement, and prose actually seems to usurp the place of verse, I
and as whose personification Mercutio had just conjured Romeo under the
arm, seated herself on the Griffin, and carried him off with her.
Romeo's question that follows.
souls of some, while others, standing close beside the grievers, feel no
Fox came up with them. "You have certainly got what is best," said he,
"Enormous."
_Paris._ So will you, I am sure, that you love me.
secret poisons to be high-treason, and sentencing those who were found
All my unspoken instincts, my vague suspicions, suddenly took
14: "Alack, what mischiefs might be set abroach;" and _Rich. III._ i. 3.
At my poor house look to behold this night
THE WHITE SNAKE                                                   53
born," etc.
Set thyself!_"
To make him curse this cursed crimeful night."
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,                        60
beheld it, she wished to buy that also. But the girl would not take
look at their grey stone huts against the scarred hillsides you
74. _Like of._ Cf. _Much Ado_, v. 4. 59: "I am your husband, if you like
"Have you any objection to my looking at your register?" said
And quickly see who is without!_"
Last Willes_, 1590: "such personnes as do gape for greater bequests;"
The huntsman then said that he was to give three beatings and one
"No," said he, perceiving her evil intention, "I will not give you the
the name of Rapunzel, and took it away with her.
they arrived at his palace, the wedding was celebrated with great pomp,
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
know that a hound does not bite a dead body and that Sir Charles
After the King's death, Dunderhead inherited the Kingdom, and lived a
high grass and said, "Come, One-Eye, we will sit down, and I will sing
Black beams shot across above our heads, with a smoke-darkened
must cast round for another scent."
battles were fought between them.  Many were lamed in these affrays, and
and commands her nurse. It is her old foster-mother who is the
said. Another was too tall, "Long and thin has little in." The third
And now nothing more was wanting to their happiness as long as they
12. In this edition of Shakespeare, the final _-ed_ of past tenses and
revised and enlarged it; but the majority of the best critics agree
truth.
Paris.
hands on the driver, and so sent back this audacious message. I
and v. 3. 256 we have two extra syllables,--the last two of _Romeo_ in
to write this letter, imploring the old man to give her an
works, published in 1615, is "Love's Labyrinth: or the True Lover's
When the Wolf had satisfied his appetite, he took himself off, laid
far distant well, was to be the victor. The runner received a pitcher,
Ma! Ma!_"
The man still did not quite like to go, but did not want to oppose his
came forward, and threw a Golden Apple to the Knights. None of them
examined, and the very point which appears to complicate a case
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen.
engaged in study.
Once when he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw that a Witch came
"Well, then, why this hound should be loose tonight. I suppose
There is no instance of it in this play.
him from the hill, and to clear my conscience by confessing to
inquired the Little Man.
sad attending ear."
thither, and the strong one pushed it into the sack, and still the sack
136. _Merchant._ Used contemptuously, like _chap_, which is a
He'll fright you up, i' faith.--Will it not be?
Then came a child who moaned and said, "My head is so cold, give me
of the lamp upon the table was blurred by it. As I entered,
"Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou," I said, "art sure no craven,
The proverbe saith vnminded oft are they that are vnseene.
listened with great delight as the cock at two, four, and six o'clock,
received his dismissal, and three farthings for his expenses on the
"I was looking out for loiterers in the street, but I saw none.
The fifth, "Who has been using my fork?"
29. _Abus'd._ Marred, disfigured.
_springtide_, etc. Cf. _K. John_, iii. 1. 86:--
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
easily pass into each other."
"I will do just what you say."
to an end, he had found only one hundred, and what was written on the
the good Little Table was at once covered with a clean little cloth.
and was enchanted by a wicked Witch, and made to live in this wood, as
Then the robber ran back as fast as he could to his captain, and said,
Came to this vault to die and lie with Juliet.--               290
I nurs'd her daughter that you talk'd withal;
pomegranate bough." It is only in the coolness of the dawn that Friar
He insisted on it, and Ash-Maiden had to be called. She first washed
to blue eyes in S. In _W.T._ i. 2. 136, some make "welkin eye" = blue
been told, since ladies of any sort must be few upon the moor,
with them to the dance, and she begged her mother to allow her to do so.
to see what she had cut. But nothing was cut, and she was lying among
Hath had no notice of these accidents;
your birth and virtue gives you heraldry."
From the narrowest alley in all broad St. Giles'.
that he is _stuck in the mire_. Two of the company advance, either with
Next morning, the King sent his people out to seek the track, but
only remained the lamp in the dining-room where the two men, the
This time I come, then never moe!_"
GRIMM'S FAIRY
definite."
strength of her despair."
parliament-house, there were found thirty-six barrels of gunpowder; upon
which earned his approval. He now took the stick from my hands
"At the same time," said Baskerville, "it's clear enough that so
to have to understand and to decide at one sitting. I should like
An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
"Would you wish dinner to be served at once, sir?"
to the earlier version of the play, and it is significant that
127. _Digressing._ Deviating, departing. It is = transgressing in _Rich.
_A.Y.L._ i. 2. 222: "Hercules be thy speed!" etc.
And tho' I'm a coachman, I freely confess,
knew that Mr. Stapleton was a naturalist. But how did you know
by which her pockets were fastened, broke, the pots fell down, the soup
long and obstinate silence.  I laid the second tier, and the third, and
a most sharp sauce.
I do remember an apothecary,--
heavily the Cudgel beat time on his back, until at length he fell to
_Capulet._ What should it be that they so shriek abroad?       190
the presence of a very handsome woman, and that she was asking me
from some evil influence, and he left us with the impression that
Thy tears are womanish, thy wild acts denote                     110
into it with her great eyes. In the meantime she, too, had grown tired
etc. Staunton quotes _A Floorish upon Fancie_, 1582:--
air, my dear Watson, and there emerges a young fellow under
of the assassin. The commutation of his death sentence had been
something or somebody upon the moor. The night was very dark, so
roughly scrawled in pencil: "Dr. Watson has gone to Coombe
sixth was not straight enough, "A green log dried behind the stove."
_Nurse._ Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?
_Sampson._ Well, sir.
And raised the reward to one hundred!
"_Two-Eyes, are you sleeping?_"
but I could not tell whence the sound came. What it all means I
to go to bed?"
him to her little hut, where her daughter was sitting by the fire. She
that his sweetheart had betrayed him, and left him alone on the wild
and the earth (_A. and C._ v. 2. 81).
"No, this is my friend Dr. Watson."
also attributed to a female, one of King Charles the Second's favourites.
relief, but she wept bitterly in her apron. To all the world he
"No," said the Sun, "I have seen none, but I present you with a casket.
it looks like a great wing.  The little boy blows his fingers to make
something to have touched bottom anywhere in this bog in which we
heath behind the hill. How soon you would bound up thither!"
that we shall very shortly get an explanation of yours, while
working out that case of blackmailing."
"So I should have done had I not seen his death in the paper next
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, Fortune;
surely must know it," replied Little Red-Cap.
would have warned me against bringing this, the last of the old
your bread."
"Did he say anything more?"
are kept here, and the seat of the most ancient one is the stone on which
instant Stapleton was rushing with extraordinary energy and speed
_Romeo._ Ha, banishment! be merciful, say death,
"Did you see him then?"
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
and will scratch out your eyes as well. Rapunzel is lost to you! You
_Balthasar._ I do beseech you, sir, have patience;
very next morning he took us both to show us the spot where the
"_Romeo_, _Richard_, more whose names I know not,
it. They were obliged to run after him, now left, now right, just as he
much nearer than ever. And a new sound mingled with it, a deep,
Defer embracements till some fitter time.
And whilest he fixd on her his partiall perced eye,
"Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil!--prophet still, if bird or devil!--
"Well, Sir Henry, your uncle had a letter that morning. He had
and I dare swear that before tomorrow night he will be fluttering
our friend considerable perplexity and annoyance.
conversation for Holmes. It was evident to me that he had been
inside and out."
you what you ask."
When the Princess grew up, she was betrothed to a Prince who lived very
Our friends had already secured a first-class carriage and were
"would under-peep her lids,
would show any wonder at the creature, so that it did not look as if he
acquired complete influence over her, and he gave her to
chance our guardian angel? I swore that I would not leave the hut
Yorkshire days, been the first to describe.
If all else fail, myself have power to die.              [_Exit._
always asking the reason."
it, so that she might see him again? The butcher promised to do that,
into the palace during the night, but they answered, "No, we have seen
The youth's knees trembled, but when he did not go on, the Old Woman
than a terrier and smaller than a mastiff."
music. One played the bassoon, the other the fiddle, and the third put
When the geese perceived the Old Woman, they flapped their wings,
investigator that he should see through a disguise."
Capulet bids the servants "quench the fire" because "the room is grown
The huntsman was ready, and went with him.
now that the people who are so interested in our friend have not
though known for their valour and their breed, were
Thou hast drunk with him,
less than the female;" and Holmes, _Academy of Armory_: "_Tiercell_,
And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
characteristic promptness and audacity he set about this at once,
She did not speak, but she gave him her hand. Then he kissed her, and
manage_ is simply = the whole course. The word means management,
gloom of the moor that strange cry which I had already heard upon
"What does the Frog want with you?"
might induce Sir Henry to go away. But I have done my duty now
The promise of adventure had always a fascination for me, and I
loved each other with all their hearts.
nurse--a situation perfectly accordant with the manners of the time.
"The surprise was not all on one side, I assure you. I had no
property, as some explain it. It was apparently suggested by the _earth_
Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
hence concordant, harmonious" (Schmidt). Cf. _T. and C._ i. 3. 100: "The
her eyes behold?
times in the year. In Winkles's _French Cathedrals_, we are told that,
expected a typical country practitioner. He was a very tall, thin
SHAKESPEARE'S USE OF VERSE AND PROSE IN THE PLAYS.--This is a subject to
mere name for the yearning of his youthful imagination, and rushing into
each time, so that she could not pluck a single apple, let her do what
know what to do. Then she began to run, and ran over sharp stones and
same kind. There is timber of silver, carpenter's axe, square, and
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
94. _Old._ Practised, experienced. Cf. _L. L. L._ ii. 1. 254, v. 2. 552,
falsely, and she knew that the huntsman had betrayed her, for that
for botany and zoology, I find an unlimited field of work here,
blacke, some Abram, some bald;" the 4th folio changes "Abram" to
Man carried in the Princess.
"There is but one place where he can have fled," she answered.
one."
lov'd you, speak me fair in death" (that is, speak well of me after I am
Thrilled me--filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
as I was not ashamed of, and that I hoped that she might honour
King's Son did not know where she was gone.
The sun had now set. The owl flew into the thicket. Directly afterward
beauty. Her eyes and hair were of the same rich hazel colour, and
enough to agree. First we drove down to the Northumberland Hotel
_Lady Capulet._ Here comes your father; tell him so yourself,
_Oth._ i. 1. 33, etc.
no water will spring up in the courtyard of the castle. He has boasted
pleasure," thought he, pulled it out, lit it at the Blue Light and
_Gregory._ Do you quarrel, sir?
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
A soldier, a physician, a philosopher,
When day dawned, but before the sun had risen, the woman came and awoke
sure to come back to-morrow."
"I bring nothing, but would have something given me."
"Oh! Grandmother," she said, "what big ears you have!"
would perform a small service for her. There was a great dark-looking
123. _Confidence._ Probably meant for _conference_. Cf. _Much Ado_,
are admitted at any hour of the day or night, and carefully attended by
it was time to go home, he asked, "Goat, have you had enough?"
Mercutio's; and Pope, who could on occasion be as coarse as any author
SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED                                          301
agreed.
Worms in thy fingers' ends."
Upon his body that hath slaughter'd him!
The girl did as she was ordered, but the water drew the hole together,
Thus they lived together Happily, until they grew old. And at last,
And following you where so you goe, my fathers house forsake."
From one side came cries of, "There is one!" but from the other, "Let
When the Knight saw the apples he was astonished, and asked from whence
_Friar Laurence._ O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
year, before the Society, when many who have been brought to life by this
might be known, or come to be known, by you. Again, you will
tell no one in the world, whosoever he may be, whence your good luck
In the olden time, there was a King, who had behind his palace a
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
191, etc. Steevens intimates that it was "a low word" in his day; but,
"Very hard. You see, for example, this great plain to the north
It was a clumsy introduction, and the lady made me feel it.
When eleven of them had made their promises, suddenly the thirteenth
gambol, at which I have often played. A log of wood is brought into the
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove';                 10
_Daemonology_, says: "It appeares that God hath appointed for a
interesting question why he should be in a hurry, since any
And Romeo has just said:--
heard voices speaking together.
"What will you give me," said the Little Man, "if I do it for you?"
An if a man did need a poison now,                              50
Then they both left the castle secretly in the night, for they feared
_Romeo._ There is no world without Verona walls,
were again hushed amid the leaves, and the old trees shot their
Twice shall I come, then never moe!_"
49. _Cures with._ Is cured by. S. does not elsewhere use _cure_
not sing, and the maiden sat and wept.
drifted across their russet face, and the heavy, slate-coloured
Which to the high top-gallant of my joy
They were all shocked. But the twelfth, whose good wish still remained
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
18. _Toes._ Pope thought it necessary to change this to "feet." Malone
enough?"
The messenger finding all still, went into the kitchen to light a
the waiting-maid sprang down first, and then Maid Maleen followed. But
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
166. _Here stands_, etc. "The whole of your fortune depends on this"
[Picture: Westminster Abbey]
to have something good, to make her stronger."
1600. In the _M. of V._ there are only four lines at the end of iii. 2.
For though fond nature bids us all lament,
higher throne, and had three great golden crowns on, and round about
Till at length they sent down
The Lion, however, said that it was too dangerous for him, for if a ray
water. "We cannot get over," said Haensel, "I see no foot-plank, and no
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold.
house."
himself down under a tree in the green meadow outside, and began to
But the story of the beautiful sleeping "Briar-Rose," for so the
the world who would wish to be a spoil-sport. I must go out
moorland farmers. There is our friend Dr. Mortimer, whom I
_Nurse._ Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse.
strokes at the tree, he struck himself in the leg. So he had to be
reasons I thought that I was justified in telling rather less
_3d Watchman_: v. 3(3). Whole no. 3.
the air, and over their companions or passengers.
On the second morning, stood water for washing and water for drinking
52. _Fond_ = foolish; as often in S. Cf. iv. 5. 78 below.
He answered, "I will do so most willingly."
50. _With._ Often used to express the relation of cause.
vision excites. On the contrary, as George Fletcher remarks, "the very
7. _Humours!_ Fancies, caprices. Some read "Humour's madman!
paper and you will look for this page of the _Times_ among it.
thus (spelling and pointing being modernized):--
man that's marr'd."
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities!
"I can put on the sack," said he, "and it may be of good service to me,
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut
as he came panting up to where I stood. "Here on the moor we are
and that Elsie might perhaps bring one into the world some day, and
on to the edge of it and dipped their beaks in. Then held up their
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
his parents have not found out the cause of it, and from what his
you."
their seven candles, and, as it was now light within the cottage, they
Of 'Never--nevermore.'"
property."
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
_Mercutio._ Where the devil should this Romeo be?
opening of the hut.
dancing here and there through the trees, and pretty flowers growing
I am not I, if there be such an I,
again the moon peeped out for an instant, but clouds were driving
had seen a creature upon the moor which corresponds with this
flew into the fox's cave, lighted on the goat's clean, shaved head, and
_Montague._ Both by myself and many other friends;
Tall and taper rose her mast:
Of modest wild-flow'rs made.
of advice. Fill your pocket full of peas, and make a small hole in it,
picked all the wild fruit she could reach, and carried everything home
specimen of the most intolerable class of Elizabethan conceits. As
the boy, and the maid was sitting by the black hen which she was going
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
134. _And thou_, etc. And thou torn to pieces with thine own means of
forth, and he heard a rippling sound in the pond. He turned round and
it."
also, warm and smoking as if it had just come out of the kitchen.
Printed in the U. S. A.
pigeons nodded with their heads and began _pick, pick, pick, pick,_
it. He turned his horse round and took the false Bride home again, and
Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!
But he had a strange custom. Every day after dinner, when the table was
soft red like apple-blossoms.
"You would have thought the middle of that prairie a fairly safe
That thou shalt quite forget thy loue, and passions past of olde.
pocket and presented the whole case as he had done upon the
desert, where she had to live in great grief and misery.
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
Then, quite unseen, he went away, and when the goose-girl came home
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
We will leave one behind us in the stable for you."
When she was asleep the Old Man came, looked at her, shook his head,
And when he came to the sea, the water was quite purple and dark-blue,
"And this Cavalier opposite to me--the one with the black velvet
duty to see her--both of us--tomorrow. Don't you think, Watson,
_Juliet._ Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
great stir and noise, and, when he asked what was going on, he was told
"Good day, Hans. What do you bring that is good?"
he has got right away, which is a considerable relief to the
Of treasure and gold have I enough, and more than any one in the world."
personal tastes, and his indoor servants at Baskerville
"Why, who do you think this is?"
But Romeo may not, he is banished.
Against my poor bones?
itself up like a wall on that side of us, low but thick and well
that I have been compelled to forget you! But God has delivered me from
Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
besides a cry?"
known to science. They all agreed that it was a huge creature,
but to me, sir, he was always the little curly-headed boy that I
very powerful weapon into our hands. If I could only use it to
Friar is afterwards to sustain. Having thus early found him to be a
Henry, one of the phrases in that queer old legend which Dr.
without greeting, or even looking at any one, she cried with a loud
advise that we do now?"
etc. A little black-letter book, _Beware the Cat_, 1584, says that it
the hired wagonette, so that we were forced to talk of trivial
8. 27: "I reason'd with a Frenchman yesterday;" and _Much Ado_, iii. 2.
That it in golden letters should be set
assure you. I made excellent arrangements, and they are only
"I find that before the terrible event occurred several people
It lives only until it is displaced by a healthier, more vigorous love,
sometimes tie up a sack even when it is not full." So he took it on his
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
touch."
An other vse there is, that whosoeuer dyes,
The scene (iv. 3) in which Juliet drinks the potion has been
are inclined. And when you have had enough, and have no more need of
So he turned back again, but the bees flew to the royal palace and
various, both natural and artificial, that it would require a very large
safely in, and everything was going as I wished; but the wretched wood
honour of the time.  I had told them that I should not return until the
In one of the print-shops of London may be seen a representation of the
of her hand and fell to the bottom. She began to weep, and ran to the
difficult to find a tenant for Baskerville Hall.  It is
business which had brought us together. It was in the private
[Illustration]
"For I of God woulde crave, as pryse of paynes forpast,
came. From a dull murmur it swelled into a deep roar, and then
end of the farther corridor, and I could see from the glimmer of
"Yes, there are one or two paths which a very active man can
world, and yet I am a King's Daughter, and a false waiting-maid has by
years ago, educational requirements of what is ethically best for
as he looked up the long, dark drive to where the house glimmered
Shuts up his windows, locks fair daylight out,
to drink. But when he began to walk and to move about, the stones in
delivered over into my hands," emptied his pitcher, and ran on.
unite to give him a pledge of their good will? Obviously at the
your two affirmatives.'" Cf. _Lear_, ii. 4. 142:--
176. _These two days._ See on iv. 1. 105 above.
_1 Musician._ Why 'Heart's ease'?
to eat! I am so hungry, and my hunger will grow greater. But I see here
At that time provisions were very cheap, and many people eat to the full;
_Abram._ Quarrel, sir! no, sir.                                   50
bridge, and laid the first stone, in the beginning of the year 1739.  It
well in both? In my opinion, when he says _blue_ he means blue, and when
But now the cat began her chase, and soon cleared a couple of rooms,
her hair. All of which the King observed.
upon the sable carpet, upon which, instantly afterwards, fell prostrate
"It is an old manuscript."
_Lady Montague_: i. 1(3). Whole no. 3.
And turn'd to look at her."
_Juliet._ By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
2.  The golden sceptre with the cross.
_Rom._ My Juliet, welcome. As do waking eyes
herself on the ridge of grass at the edge of the field, and wept bitter
is = tell, explain.
occupies four or five months, to within as many days, thus adding
"To Grethel, Mother."
and it seemed so familiar to him that he went toward it. When he
another, all peculiar to the play, self-reliant dramatic intuition of
_Benvolio._ Be rul'd by me, forget to think of her.
for when Mortimer pressed his questions to an inconvenient extent
no harm! I am half-frozen, and only want to warm myself a little beside
lurked about with his hound, but without avail. It was during
_Mercutio_: i. 4(73); ii. 1(34), 4(95); iii. 1(71). Whole no. 273.
part of the pipe is generally exposed to the cold air, this stoppage
between them. It was not a brutal countenance, but it was prim,
And take the table quite away!_"
at or about the time of the tragedy.
were unable to shake it. I could only check it by finding if she
the sides of the fantastic hills. In the distant hollow on the
Where his hovel had formerly stood, now stood a great castle. He opened
began also _pick, pick, pick, pick,_ and gathered all the good seeds
you."
confidante of her love. It is the woman who cherished her infancy who
three rainy days!
The King's Son in whose kingdom they were, was, however, the very man
she make Mother Holle's bed carefully, nor shake it so as to make the
By this time is tired by the weight of your bag;
those rumours to which local superstition has given rise.
_Friar John_: v. 2(13). Whole no. 13.
_Friar Laurence._ Sir, go you in,--and, madam, go with him;--
foolish by the others. They begrudged the mill to him, and afterward he
secure the regalia, the whole being enclosed within a grate.  This was
to anyone. My motive for withholding it from the coroner's
road told me that we were back upon the moor once again. Every
_Enter_ ROMEO
understood that the next of kin is Mr. Henry Baskerville,
in the notes to the plays in which they occur.
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound.--
she threw her golden necklace down to them, and thought to content them
_Capulet._                        Go to, go to;
are to kill you if you let yourself be seen."
delirious in a high fever under the care of Dr. Mortimer. The two
_Romeo._ [_To Juliet_] If I profane with my unworthiest hand
His sister opened the door for him, and said, "But you must be here
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
journey's end, you can rest. But now you must go forward. Who knows
Hans. But he made one condition, that Clever Elsie should be really
He came and leapt down to him, and upbraided him for having forgotten
"What! Old Frankland the crank?"
1. 115: "the best temper'd courage in his troops."
falcon as the tercel." The hawk was trained to know and obey _the
darkness like a crafty and savage animal who has heard the steps
them in a stone mortar, and when they be small mix them with two pounde
When she had had enough, she said, "But now I am tired. Where is there
butt of my revolver and, walking swiftly up to the door, I looked
"Very good, Barrymore. We may talk further of this some other
"Did you see Mr. Barrymore?"
word nowhere else.
this rule is in verbs like _cry_, _die_, _sue_, etc., the _-ed_ of which
of the chamber into which it opened.  That at the eastern extremity was
60. _Read o'er the volume_, etc. Here one quibble leads to another by
room except the kitchen?"
repulsive.
The Fox said, "If you will not do it I must leave you. But before I
"Not for money or land," answered she, "but for flesh and blood."
up.
"I know what is good when I see it, and I see it now. That's a
an Iron Stove?" But as she much wished to get home to her father, she
With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.             [_Exit._
_Shakspere Primer_ (1877; small but invaluable); Rolfe's _Shakespeare
Then the little sister cried, "Pray, dear little Brother, do not drink,
O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
man to hand down our bags.
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
point of going to the printer. The quotation on page 288 of the Appendix
to grow by the timely succession of wet and dry, heat and cold.
her to his castle.
6. _Associate me._ Accompany me. For the transitive use, cf. _T.A._ v.
stone, and when she was tired, the waiting-maid took her turn. With
"You quoted some of it."
But he was so much in love and so befooled, that he thought of nothing
THE THREE LITTLE MEN IN THE WOOD                                 181
Any number of them are ready to swear that they have seen such a
Waiting-Maid with the limping leg,
kitchen.
the mention of Pompey reminds the Tribune of their plebeian fickleness,
any man should buy the fee-simple of my life for an
Italy in its lyric rhythm, its blindness of passion, its blossoming and
of gold to go to the Iron Stove, instead of the King's Daughter. So
full upon her face. She was a large, impassive, heavy-featured
It was not long before they met a man who wore a cap, but had put it
and handsome. The youngest lacked only his left arm, and had in its
that hath a devil, for, rushing down the stairs into the
Foals; and the fisherman's wife bore two children who were made
62.  The Sailing Match.
appearance.
been her brother I should have known better how to answer him. As
"But, good little Mother," said he, "how can you carry all that away?"
behind the hill, was the house of the Stapletons. All was sweet
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
embarrassing; as in _1 Hen. IV._ i. 1. 50: "uneven and unwelcome news,"
Grimm's _Fairy Tales_, not an abridgment superficial and colorless, nor
_Montague._ Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
The long room is of extraordinary size, being 190 feet long, by 66 wide,
she showed him the feathers, which they had let fall in the courtyard,
Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.--       [_Exeunt some._
been used by the poets from Pope's description of Camilla flying "o'er
16. _The very pin_, etc. The allusion is to archery. The _clout_ (cf.
"Do you not find it interesting?"
I do not like to go back so soon, it might make him angry."
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.--
_infirm_, as in _Macb._ ii. 2. 52, etc.
we lowered the lamp and sat smoking cigarettes without making the
due to some doubts as to his complete sanity, so atrocious was
Next morning, he went with it to the father, and said to him, "No one
upon her guard, and to open the door to no one.
This man has a comfortable great coat, a lantern, and a rattle, with a
Day and night, he journeyed with this flower to the castle. When he
of her chair, and I saw that the pink nails had turned white with
before;" but S. wrote for the stage, where the action would make the
divided us by about half. Then, still keeping a hundred yards
custom.  Now, the poor lass upstairs was like to have her
And there came such a violent wind that it blew Conrad's hat far away
bad bargain with you. Now, I will try to earn a living by selling pots
"What did Grethel give you?"
"The blinded boy that shoots so trim
illustrates the antiquity of that dish so much esteemed by all boys and
glimpse of him."
the means to wield that scourge. The Prince himself has a share in the
not go alone."
water in fountains. Cf. _R. of L._ 1234:--
suggestion is added that parents may do well to show the poem to their
[Picture: The Armory]
little for the comforts of life. When I thought of the heavy
My blood ran cold in my veins, for there was a break in his voice
away like a roe, and as the moon was suddenly covered, disappeared from
The King's Son had waited until she came, and instantly took her by the
_Nurse._ No, truly, sir, not a penny.
Storehouse of Similies_, 1600: "if the mother put worme-wood or mustard
proud daughters.
The avenue opened into a broad expanse of turf, and the house lay
_Romeo._ O, I am fortune's fool!
of the villages near London, there used to be two or more parties of
81. _Good goose, bite not._ A proverbial phrase, found in Ray's
to give you to the very first beggar man, and I will keep it."
Where for these many hundred years the bones                      40
understand that any strong sign of interest would be the surest
the open country stood the gallows. Thither the shoemaker guided the
"Now, Mr. Holmes, we will give you something a little more
barges, or ships.  At these wharfs many casks of fruit, plums, currants,
voice the following curious, old-world narrative:
English.
than a single week in summer, neglected to omit this reference to a
So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
convict!"
he always remained the little wilful boy of her own girlhood, the
with us. He has been excavating a barrow at Long Down and has got
"Immediately after breakfast. We will drive in to Coombe Tracey,
quarto, "So light a foot ne'er hurts the trodden flower," is "a daintier
"Ah," she answered, "have I not reason to weep? If I get Hans, and we
Hie you to church; I must another way,
horrors of the charnel-house, with the weakness of Romeo who is ready to
horses should be harnessed to it, to drag her along through one street
_Gregory_: i. 1(24). Whole no. 24.
was much used in this sense by divines in Shakespeare's time, and with
_1 Watch._ [_Within_] Lead, boy; which way?
the Old Woman took her crutch and hobbled into it.
perhaps he may yet be restored to his family.
minstrel.                                                        110
heed to me. However, be of good courage. I will help you, and tell you
in the black brow of night."
"heaven is here,
detective?"
But how astonished he was, when she went to the well, took off the
"And now there's this affair of the letter to me at the hotel. I
suffered him to hurry me to my palazzo.
to his ruin, but here she proved unexpectedly independent. She
and of their parting the poet says:--
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
rose again next morning hungry still.
began to fall. The trees rustled in the darkness, the owls hooted, and
could.
the time of taking the potion, and that she will wake on _Thursday_
other sisters.
for us?"
Then said the shoemaker, "I will show mercy and give you bread once
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are.
chairs, and benches were thrown down, the washing-bowl lay broken to
servants, in pursuit of the children. The children saw from afar that
"I hope your visit has cast some light upon those occurrences
were endured then; but it shows how fashions change in these matters.
bring him down from London. He did raise his eyebrows, however,
grave.  The mask which concealed the visage was made so nearly to
The word "moor" only was printed in ink.
(7th ed. 1887); Sidney Lee's _Life of Shakespeare_ (1898; for ordinary
would have gone badly without me.' And then he was ridiculed still
Save the dogges letter glowming with nar, nar."
them. This went on for the whole day, but by evening the huntsmen had
and they said, "So far as he is concerned, we are safe."
_Nurse._ Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
He'll drive you home quickly, and when you are there,
a pause. "There is Laura Lyons--her initials are L. L.--but she
"Exactly. She married an artist named Lyons, who came sketching
_Juliet._ How cam'st thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
disease known as the _Plica Polonica_. Cf. _Lear_, ii. 3. 10: "elf all
him a white horse. Again he was the only one who caught the apple, and
the old rampart of bones.  For the half of a century no mortal has
the evening they came to a forest where they meant to pass the night.
"It's a thousand to one against our finding him at the house," he
he had endured, and went on his way singing and whistling.
_Juliet._ I will confess to you that I love him.
The huntsman replied, "Lord, I will venture it at my own risk; of fear
request you to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper."
master, sprang over the wicket-gate and pursued the unfortunate
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
whether an inn was good or bad, or if anything was to be found in it
earnestly commend to your attention) this Manor of
dateless night;" _Rich. III._ i. 3. 151: "The dateless limit of thy dear
Next day the soldier was tried, and though he had done nothing wicked,
and instantly the gold pieces fell down on the cloth like a
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
city marshal to open the gates.  This being done, the heralds resume
when he saw with his own eyes that it was really so, and that she
These now in fear, already wretched those."
from the leading article, is really one of the most remarkable
upon the boughs, and sang whatever they knew.
cannot bear it any longer;" and he begged so much that at last she
side-roads to the forest, and called Iron John.
and with it a bottle of sour beer.
"No."
So she took him with her into her enchanted castle, where there were
coward gates on atomies." In _2 Hen. IV._ v. 4. 33, Mrs. Quickly
into dew. Malone, who also says that the reading _earth_ is
Humour_, iii. 2:--
stake the parties were disposed to venture; hence it came to mean to
their death.
inquest. He said that there were no traces upon the ground round
caught sight of the tailor, and saw that he had once more two healthy
Then Hans built the small house, and said that he had now done
What, ho! apothecary!
piece of cloth in her bosom, mounted her horse, and then went away to
Turn forth her silver lining on the night"
_Benvolio._ Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.
"And ask at the station office if there is a message for me."
At last the Old Woman slid down, took the bundle off the young man's
worn by the tread of many heavy feet--such as one sees in old churches
146. _Manage._ "Bringing about" (Schmidt); or we may say that _all the
helpless, clumsy creatures!" Then he took up a sack full of precious
And all combin'd, save what thou must combine                     60
4.  St. Edward's staff, carried before the king at his coronation.
"You do not comprehend?" he said.
hour? What do you expect?"
set his mind at rest about my safety."
fire reached the room where the cat was sitting, she sprang safely out
"Ah, you have a right to know about him. That is the cause of all
plan as well. Sufficient for tomorrow is the evil thereof; but I
Suddenly, she heard a whirring of wings and a rushing through the air,
I had my own experience for a guide since it had shown me the man
"I said nothing but:
Wishing-Cloak hangs in a cupboard, and as for the Bird's-Heart I will
many other cases, and I beg that you will forgive me if I have
facts to the world, and I have already given my reasons for not
about alone. Some great misfortune will befall you if you do. Did
reporting."
When the man got home, his wife was no longer in the hovel. But instead
observed that he has taken pains to prevent them from being
ACT I
This love feel I that feel no love in this.
126. _Sound._ Utter, express; or "'to sound as with a plummet' is
simplicity, so playful and fantastic in the imagery and language, that
Such as I love; and you, among the store,
But the Old Woman called out to her, "What are you afraid of, my Child?
father and mother again, but I will keep you with me for you have set
Stapleton. It was clear that there was already an understanding
"Sir Henry's falling in love could do no harm to anyone except
improved the wharfings, and introduced water by convenient sluices.  The
standing and went on.
"That would be the sort of thing for us," said the Cock.
South Coast. Thence I went straight to a friend in America. I
Fyve yeres he lived an Hermite, and an Hermite dyd he dye."
You, Capulet, shall go along with me;--
"Oh," answered the son, "she has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'll
his advice. "But yet I cannot give it up so," he said; "I will help you
"In the first place, buy yourself an A B C book of the kind which has
too stayed away.
you will be invisible, and then you can steal after the twelve."
There Lay the Gold Ring in the Shell                              57
"Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bower,
quite as well as _runaway_;" but, as Furnivall and others have noted,
ground, two Golden Lilies sprang up; that the horse had two Golden
Is fair and honest, and in his mistress' name
who renders me service for them."
beautiful than the Queen herself. And once when the Queen asked her
word in S. "Auburn" is adopted by a few editors, and is explained as =
very intimately, for his favourite walk was over the moor to our
we were to drag this great dog to the light of day it would not
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
figs, oranges, and lemons, are brought on shore, to be taken away in
It was evident to us that all pursuit was in vain until the fog
_lustihead_ = lustihood, _livelihead_ = livelihood (as in Spenser,
"The man is a public danger. There are lonely houses scattered
papers from his pocket. "Here is a photograph of the couple taken
she went.
_Nurse._ O, he is even in my mistress' case,
cannot doubt from what we know of him that he would have found
But Jove and Venus green about the light,
And never trouble Peter for the matter.                  [_Exit._
(Collier). Some editors follow Pope in reading (from 1st quarto) "That
110. _In happy time._ Schmidt explains this as here = "_a propos_, pray
"He only repeated what some fool had said at the inquest. Why
41. _If thou art Dun_, etc. Douce quotes Chaucer, _C.T._ 16936:
hear nothing but discords; here's my fiddlestick,                 50
all things are possible upon the moor. Yes, I should not be
helplessly at the frightful thing which was hunting him down. But
You may think how glad the Queen was when she heard the name! And when
The old man put on a very knowing expression. "Because I could
and learned that you had been chasing Selden. The poor fellow has
But the goat did not behave better to him, and cried:
"_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, bleat,
her at the table.
He rode on with the beautiful maiden, and his road took him again
_Nurse._ Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,      190
"I think that we might venture a little farther than this. Look
pretty, clean little bed.
_Romeo._ And bad'st me bury love.
the fresh air is so reviving, and the warm milk so delightfully sweet.
"I could not quite understand the object of your questions this
But the Bear began to speak and said, "Do not be afraid. I will do you
the robbers, and at last they thought of a plan. The Donkey was to
"_Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
37. _Nuptial._ The regular form in S. In the 1st folio _nuptials_ occurs
of despair, he went and stood in much fear, and said:
the beard, whereby a small part of it was lost.
boulder-sprinkled hill lay upon the right which had in bygone
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
Child, what are you looking for?"
Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
of the distressing loss and happy recovery of little Thomas Dellow, has
The Maiden Said, "I Will Be True to You, Your Life Long"         155
its  role, stalked to and fro among the waltzers) he was seen to be
If you might please to stretch it."
a little ingenuity, this is easily done; for, put water into what you
that Providence, my sons, I hereby commend you, and I
green eye." Clarke remarks: "The brilliant touch of green visible in
house?"
moon was behind the clouds. And then I gave a cry of exultation,
this Medoc will defend us from the damps."
"But tell me what is about to happen," the maiden continued to entreat.
to marry, for he thought that she had long been dead.
and my nag will do for you," and the Princess had to be content with
goes on upon the moor," said Dr. Mortimer.
128. _By my fay._ That is, by my faith. Cf. _Ham._ ii. 2. 271, etc.
"I know why he was at the gate at that hour. It was to meet a
of the six years during which she was not to speak or laugh, and she
by the child."
therefore, useless for his purpose. He then had it returned and
hearth-rug and picked up the stick which our visitor had left
no jacket and was frozen with cold. Then she gave it her own.
Who, raging with thy tears, and they with them,
"You have lost one of your boots?"
_Enter_ LADY CAPULET _and_ Nurse
And now she knew no rest until she had learnt where the King kept the
over his three-legged horse to the stable-boy, mounted the other, and
in _Histrio-mastix_, 1610, a man expresses his wonder that the maskers
"Till tyme give strength to meete and match in fight
A steep curve of heath-clad land, an outlying spur of the moor,
Let two more summers wither in their pride                        10
here with the queer hills breaking out of it. Do you observe
loosely = kinsman in S. Cf. iii. 1. 143 below: "Tybalt, my cousin! O my
"He found a way out of his difficulties through the chance that
in an iron cage in his courtyard, and forbade the door to be opened
"He shall. I will see to that. Uncle and nephew have been
to run far away, while the maiden quietly went on combing and plaiting
the birds were feeling very tired after exerting their wings so much
There is the Monument: it is situated on the east side of Fish Street
And his to me;
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
Be shriv'd and married. Here is for thy pains.
These instances of variable accent must not be confounded with those in
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.--
To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
gave me keen pleasure, for I had often been piqued by his
[Picture: Skating]
any hound that ever mortal eye has rested upon.  And even
this whom you do not know?"
custom. On the fourth of May Sir Charles had declared his
ghost of Tybalt, and drinks the potion in the frenzied apprehension the
I know nothing."
_Peter._ You will not, then?
all that had occurred. For an instant his eyes blazed at me, but
to me that I have spoken quite enough about the little that I
70. _Starveth._ That is, look out hungrily; a bold but not
Is admired both for the grandeur and simplicity which are united in its
"sitting with her upon the form ... in manner and form following."
three meals to the younger one, which was the servant-girl; and to the
it up again and he could not get any of it. Then Conrad was angry,
The birds beneath him at once cried to him, "You must be our King, no
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
deep. There he sat, with his tweed suit and his American accent,
slightest degree with our sympathy for the lovers. In the mind of Juliet
seriously imagine that I neglected to get the number? No. 2704 is
The following night, the second son had to keep watch, it fared no
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
lessons fairly well."
books.
_Capulet._ Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
undisturbed happiness.
privilege, and on which their names are stamped and numbered; but the
Beside the cooling fountain's spray?
grotesque was the attitude that I could not for the instant
feet."
Henry. Please forget the words I said, which have no application
so."
apprentice became aware that his table had been changed, and was
covered. In half an hour we won't be able to see our hands in
more lovely than any he had ever seen. The maiden was frightened when
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
Nares quotes Ray's _Proverbs_: "Patience perforce is a medicine for a
_Benvolio._                   No, coz, I rather weep.            180
"Ah, unhappy girl that I am! If I had but taken King Thrushbeard!"
he told her how he had been bewitched by a wicked Witch, and how no
Some aqua vitae, ho!--My lord! my lady!
carrie no coales, _Brave_."
for fault of a worse.
Flounder cannot do that. He can make an Emperor and a Pope. I beseech
And none is so fair as she._"
it--the name was different--had disappeared with his wife. The
Who in this land is the fairest of all?_"
Just then he saw the Old Woman quietly take away a cage with a bird in
making the time of the conversation not far from the middle of July.
said, "Goat, have you had enough?"
_Juliet._ Yon light is not daylight, I know it, I.
_Benvolio._ Here were the servants of your adversary
conversation" (Malone). For _question_ = conversation, cf. _A.Y.L._ iii.
accursed fish wants to pull me in?" The Little Man had been sitting
tourists. It is in the garden of an ancient convent, and consists of an
At the most remote end of the crypt there appeared another less
not last even two months, as we may infer from the fact (i. 1. 136) that
to a mill.
off without even once looking back at the beautiful daughter. When he
had never yet beheld, came to her. But the King's Son began to talk
Holmes stretched out his hand for the manuscript and flattened it
artificers, and a multitude of spectators.  The architect was not a
which is most likely to elucidate it.
bird in the common and ugly cage," so he opened the door, laid hold of
_Romeo._ O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
told him in a letter how badly things had gone with them, and how the
_Schoole of Abuse_ (1579), excepts a few plays from the sweeping
And these, who often drown'd could never die,
the hall to look on. When all the candles were lit, and people, each
But the King grew angry and said, "He who helped you when you were in
_1 Watch._ A great suspicion; stay the friar too.
trembled, rocks rolled into the sea, the sky was pitch black, and it
saw, through the window on which the bright sun was shining, the girl
the King and his daughter. When he had ended he asked for a trifling
Again some time passed, and then the youngest King's Son wanted to set
had them on."
friends say about it.]
with his soldiers." The daughter wanted to hear who the strange Knight
of the Ants, whose life he had once saved, came with five thousand
The hen, which by some accident had heard nothing of the whole matter,
of salad fell to the ground.
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
"Willingly," said she, and divided her bit of bread in two, and gave
Capulet" (Steevens). See i. 4. 48 and 103 fol. above.
almost at my mercy. There is but one danger which can threaten
_Jul._                I am, if I be Day,
sedate and peace-making Benvolio, and lectured by Mercutio, of all
open air; but they may supply themselves here with every kind of
home?
small grey hamlet, in which two larger buildings, which proved to
Nurse!--Wife!--What, ho!--What, nurse, I say!
about to die. Then they looked around them, and were quite at a loss,
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
And then down falls again.
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
_Capulet._ Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
[Picture: A wharf]
you unnecessarily--but you should use all proper caution. A draught of
and _horse's_), _princess_, _sense_, _marriage_ (plural and possessive),
crowded city.  The old gentleman on the bench seems also to have had his
girls; and both girls and boys will find Bennett's _Master Skylark_
changed her into a bird, shut her up in a wicker-work cage, and carried
brought all our long and weary labours to so piteous an end. Then
evening stroll, but the ground was damp and the night inclement.
because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain
_Romeo._ Not I; unless the breath of heart-sick groans
O woful day, O woful day!                                         50
from their windows at the interminable granite-flecked moor
will pluck thee back." See also _W.T._ iv. 4. 476, 762 and _A. and C._
Open to me!
low, must all be laid in the grave; and though this noble monument
hair. They rode back and announced this to the King.
sifting and sorting what is taken away, every thing becomes useful.
and asserts all her own superiority, and rises to majesty in the
sitting-room to which we afterwards repaired that Holmes asked
54. _Reason coldly._ Talk coolly or dispassionately. Cf. _M. of V._ ii.
Henry helped them both in, and placed himself behind again, and was
Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who lives some four miles to the south
walked far upon the sodden moor, full of dark imaginings, the
said, "Still I will go as far as the Wind blows and as long as the cock
65. _Worm._ Nares says, under _idle worms_: "Worms bred in idleness. It
The goat answered:
very light hazel eyes, and which gives wonderful clearness and animation
"I think it's well worth troubling about."
William of Normandy, called the Conqueror, having no great reliance on
That no inconstant toy thee let [hinder] thy promesse to fulfill."
at the third time it fell violently down. At the same instant there was
1817; being the anniversary of the battle of Waterloo, his late Majesty,
the maiden down and led her before the King.
and stern, his rifle poised ready over his forearm. He was
steadily as if he were standing motionless. I crept down the
Whose high respect and rich validity
the other the imperial orb. And on both sides of her stood the yeomen
For he was coorteous of his speche, and pleasant of devise.
the deep roar of the hound. I was in time to see the beast spring
waste time in following the wrong one, but sooner or later we
their clumsy guest. They tugged at his hair with their hands, put their
curiously employed at present, for, being an amateur astronomer,
He bears him like a portly gentleman;
letter was suggested to you by Stapleton?"
considers that he has a grievance," he said. "He thinks that it
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
"Where is the bacon, Hans?"
habitation. A vague pathway among the boulders led to the
Then they came to a large town, and she asked again, "To whom does this
pitcher of water against thirst, and a little chair as a provision
duty.
In the meantime, the Old Woman stroked and fondled her geese as if they
probability--and so ran this man down. There is one very singular
and said, "You have always been so merry, now you can try for once what
lightly. And now, my dear Watson, without referring to my notes,
following: Halliwell-Phillipps's _Outlines of the Life of Shakespeare_
groves and pleasant places, assumed occasionally the likeness of women
55. _I ne'er saw_, etc. Cf. _Hen. VIII._ i. 4. 75:--
glories of the Baskervilles if he has not money enough to keep up
they liked.
out of child-heartedness, humor, poetic feeling, and delicate sentiment
about the forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did nothing
But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
My wand'ring feet have stray'd;
"What did you take her?"
while the baronet had run down the path, so that no track but the
coach came rolling up drawn by eight white horses, with white ostrich
Are you at leisure, holy father, now,
_Lady Capulet._ Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
husband.
Here travels the brewer along with his dray,
_Ham._ 14 out of 20 scenes, and in _Macb._ 21 out of 28, have such
One evening when the full moon was shining in the sky, and the sheep
But he said, "Be comforted. The evil days are past. Now we will
So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
of the Baskervilles was not extinct in this their last
words, the stove, and the King's Son also, had disappeared, and now she
woman."
wilderness. The Count had strayed away from them in the wood by night,
is signed "Ar. Br."--the form in which his name also appears on the
91. _Which_, etc. The real subject of _bodes_ is _which once untangled_
Nor read the subtle shining secrecies
It is suggestive that Anthony is not a common name in England,
_Capulet._ But saying o'er what I have said before.
At that very moment the old one whose young ones he had spared was
_Ham._ iii. 1. 151, _1 Hen. IV._ iii. 2. 60, etc.
inns were. In one they were singing and dancing. The other had a poor,
Rings were sometimes worn on the _thumb_. Steevens quotes Glapthorne,
Thy drugs are quick.--Thus with a kiss I die.            [_Dies._
_Friar Laurence._ Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man.
prologue was to be spoken by the same actor that personated the chorus
_Nurse._ Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
as if the staircase were falling down. And at length there was a crash
away from him, and he would not have her money.
And the lamp-light o'er him streaming throws his shadows on the floor;
Not long afterward, in the evening, the Seven Dwarfs came home. But
"A hound it was," he said at last, "but it seemed to come from
But as soon as he touched her, he likewise stuck fast, and was obliged
At that very moment, the poor woman awoke, day had already dawned,
LADY CAPULET, wife to Capulet.
even amidst the sorrow which they see around them. A wedding or a burial
green silk. The bed was of ivory, and the canopy of red velvet, and on
helped us to realise the horror of this woman's life when we saw
this a lamentable thing, grandsire, that we should be
of their children and overcome by mutual pity, embraced each other; so
_Friar John._ Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.        [_Exit._
_Apothecary._                    Who calls so loud?
And when they had arisen, the King's Son ordered the three attendants
Spenser, _F.Q._ iv. 1. 54: "Till time the tryall of her truth expyred."
humoured him too much when he was a lad and gave him his own way
_Illustrated By
planted the branch on it, and wept so much that the tears fell down on
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,                          50
deserves another!"
So Two-Eyes took the entrails and buried them quietly, at evening, in
_Rom._ Lead, holy Father, all delay seems long.
inquiry" (Dowden). _Married_ is here a trisyllable.
fixed purpose, I sat in the dark recess of the hut and waited
Then the maiden looked at them and recognized her brothers. She
man.
right to the top, where he was most safe.
and asked if they were for sale.
14. _Torch-bearer._ See on i. 4. 11 above.
"How in the world can you say that?"
Before breakfast on the morning following my adventure I went
Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
Whose unavoided eye is murtherous," etc.
the cabman's reply. For an instant he sat in silent amazement.
_Iliad_, ix.: "and aspir'd the gods' eternal seats;" Marlowe,
tree and fell asleep.
treasure of the country."
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
you returned, sir, and my brother thought he would be safer on
_Nurse._ His name is Romeo, and a Montague,
ground. And she was so pitiless that she took poor Rapunzel into a
And the mother said, "Oh, she can see the wind coming up the street,
She rode some miles further, but the day was warm, the sun scorched
fire." Cf. _J.C._ iii. 1. 171: "As fire drives out fire, so pity pity;"
_Benvolio._ Tut! you saw her fair, none else being by,
how frightened I have been! How dark it was inside the Wolf!"
mutual. He referred to her again and again on our walk home, and
"When sorrows come, they come not single spies,
Her low humour, her shallow garrulity, mixed with the dotage and
Holmes.
"Never mind, I'll do better next time."
poverty.
[Illustration: THE FIRST SERVANT CAME WITH A DISH OF DELICATE FARE]
them the half.
The second son had gone to a miller and had apprenticed himself to
Hold, there is forty ducats; let me have
_Friar Laurence._ Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
fifty hours;" and "two and thirty" has been suggested, which is more in
kissed and embraced him. When she saw that he had brought with him a
eventually overtake him."
"Look it up in the books, sir. It will repay reading--Frankland
This bridge consists of five arches: the centre one is 150, those next to
"Don't Be Impatient," Said Snow-White, "I Will Help You"         306
Girolamo della Corte, in his _Storia di Verona_, 1594, relates the story
Mr. Sherlock Holmes, who was usually very late in the mornings,
trouble, ought not afterward to be despised."
When his father saw this he was amazed, and said, "This is the
52. _Beshrew._ A mild form of imprecation, often used playfully. Cf.
consented to perform the marriage,--
[Illustration]
being brought from his native woods, to be thus tormented; for who can
Mire, and I do not fancy that he will see his little dog again.
than the wind. And in that case he should receive, over and above, as a
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
it? Speak out, man, and don't stand staring!"
_Nurse._ Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
dagger on your pate. I will carry no crotchets; I'll
plague. The King himself, in his palace, did not know how to secure
abbey was amply provisioned.  With such precautions the courtiers might
So she took hold of the Frog with two fingers, carried him upstairs,
to her bedside, and said, "Dear Daughter, I feel my end drawing near.
How shall that faith return again to earth,
"What was that?"
_Benvolio._ Good morrow, cousin.
figure of a man upon the tor. Do not think that it was a
lay before him. He might have been the very spirit of that
were lined by a number of glass-topped cases full of that
"Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles's younger brother died
settled upon the moor. A few faint stars were gleaming in a
one of the horses whilst he was galloping, and put on four new shoes
God mark thee to his grace!
When they came to the village, the youth got off. He followed the good
custom of the day. In _Rich. II._ v. 2. 56, the Duke of York discovers,
pale, "As pale as death." The fifth too red, "A fighting-cock." The
idea was that this young stranger from Canada might possibly be
carnival season, that I encountered my friend.  He accosted me with
entered it, he heard a screaming as if a little child was there.
truth, sir, we were both very much attached to Sir Charles, and
Merchant, and the passion expresses itself in verse, the vernacular
If he begged for a little piece of bread the other laughed mockingly,
The maiden took the drumstick, wrapped it carefully in a cloth, and
dared to comment on this beautiful 'Hymn to the Night,' breathed out by
Some shall be pardon'd and some punished;
speaketh now, saied Venus in her rage?"
Still upon the waters grey,
54. _Steads._ Benefits, helps. Cf. _Temp._ i. 2. 165: "Which since have
"Well?" said he.
The butler was standing very pale but very collected before us.
Toads were all disenchanted, and were King's children, and full of
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
have a fairly full knowledge of the case."
Charing Cross until we found the remains of the mutilated _Times_
In this resolve. I'll send a friar with speed
152. _Fettle._ Prepare, make ready. It is the reading of the quartos and
them a thought. I don't suppose I should have done so had I not
_dear_, _fire_, _hair_, _hour_, _your_, etc. In iii. 1. 198: "Else, when
of which were of silver, and shone and glistened. The soldier thought,
convenience in London; for, to whatever part of the town you may wish to
some dark room;" and _A.Y.L._ iii. 2. 420: "Love is merely a madness,
with you there is no reason why I should not be perfectly frank.
"You have not observed anyone follow or watch you?"
his journeys in the East he never heard such a choir of nightingales as
them into his sack. "I will examine it no longer," said he, "but will
Many for many virtues excellent,
11. _Rhyme_ occurs frequently in the early plays, but diminishes with
_feet_ of two syllables each, with the accent on the second syllable.
"Yes," said the husband, "and so we must always think it,--now we will
gentleman. One must not pour oil on to the fire, he might fall in love
or = gracious power.
"Wait, wait," said the Frog. "Take me with you. I can't run as you
To see the enclosed lights, now canopied
_Servant._ Madam, the guests are come, supper
This shows that the scene was supposed to be immediately changed to the
me by becoming my wife. That seemed to make the matter no better,
very beautiful, but still she did not please him, and he could not look
rooms and bedrooms had carpets. Food and wine of the very best were
And have I not cause for such a feeling? Consider the long
step-daughter, Mlle. Carere, the young lady who, as it will be
peasants of the appearance of a strange creature upon the moor.
99. _Freetown._ S. takes the name from Brooke's poem. It translates the
208. _Before, and apace._ Go before, and quickly. For _apace_, cf. iii.
My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
The true Bride waits for you!_"
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
of silver and gold!
Testament_, 1600: "as well crabs as sweetings for his summer fruits."
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man,--
The King said, "He shall stay with you as long as you live, and shall
163. _Drunk all, and left._ The reading of 2nd quarto. The 1st has
Of one I danc'd withal.             [_One calls within_ 'Juliet.'
known for his kind heart, so that everyone who was in trouble was
_1st Citizen_: i. 1(2); iii. 1(4). Whole no. 6.
If thou art taken. Hence, be gone, away!
unfrequently we meet with verse where we might expect prose. As
suspicious eyes upon everyone who received a legacy from Sir
to mar,' quoth a'?--Gentlemen, can any of you tell
Thursday morning instead of Friday. Mr. Daniel was at first disinclined
night brings all my suspicions to a head.
To marry Paris. Wednesday is to-morrow.                           90
Then the Princess desired to see the horses, which the other
A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.--
mixture of contracted and uncontracted participles.
and then a clean well-spread little table will stand before you, with
when he enters the confines of a tavern claps me his
"Because it is your post of duty. Because you gave me your word
Hans, however, went with them, and when it was night they came to a
all your jollity?"
that saints have never flourished in those parts, but there
the initials 'C.C.' are placed before that hospital the words
Fig.
said, "I love you with my whole heart. Will you be my wife?"
"Whom would you recommend, then?"
falsehood would be of no avail, they were obliged to confess all.
Frenchman, lazy Spaniard, plodding-Dutchman, rough Russian, proud Turk,
out of the water, seized him, and drew him under.
the bedroom to fetch Bird-Found and throw him into it. But when she
[Illustration: FUNERAL OF JULIET]
_What say ye all now?_"
Whose bright renoune yet shineth cleare, Verona men it name:
"_all_ are punished." But the good Friar's hope, expressed when he
surrounded him, and one of them wounded him a little in the foot, so
"Well, I am glad from my heart that you are here, for indeed the
_Re-enter others of the_ Watch, _with_ FRIAR LAURENCE
Open the door!_"
CAPULET,  } heads of two houses at variance with each other.
his steps in the passage, coming and going, just about the hour
144. _Flirt-gills._ That is _flirting Gills_ or women of loose
On this fair corse, and, as the custom is,
But the Raven, sitting lonely on that placid bust, spoke only
He did not speak, but looked at his wife with sorrowful glances. At
adopted in his _Sonnets_. See comments upon it, p. 22 above.
_Benvolio._ Part, fools!
so," where either _yours_ (preferably the first) is a dissyllable, the
33. _Jealous._ Suspicious; as in _Lear_, v. 1. 56, _J.C._ i. 2. 71, etc.
It helps not, it prevails not; talk no more.                      60
Then they went still farther out of the town, and drove their geese
house. The waste was surrounded by a large forest, and every morning
Dr. Mortimer looked strangely at us for an instant, and his voice
at the end of act i. The prologue is omitted in the folio, but we cannot
while their quaint charm grows on one more and more as one lives with
of all.
and Rosalind's reference to the "bugle eyeballs" of Phebe in _A. Y.L._
through a curtain, there stepped the man whom we were awaiting.
he found no more gold under his pillow. But it lay instead under that
Thus I had made certain of the hound, and had guessed at the
And say'st thou yet that exile is not death?
or bak'd meats;" and Sherwood (English supplement to Cotgrave), who
it was King Thrushbeard, her suitor whom she had driven away with scorn.
"With solemne othe they both theyr sorowfull leaue do take;
overtakes the unhappy pair.
He went out, cut some willows, and brought them home. Then she began to
"Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil!--prophet still, if bird or devil!
_Juliet._ Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
it.  He was too much astounded to resist.  Withdrawing the key I
meaning is clear. _Set cock-a-hoop_ = play the bully. S. uses the word
wicked companions, stole down upon the farm and carried off
_Benvolio._                   At thy good heart's oppression.
THE FISHERMAN AND HIS WIFE
[_Laying Paris in the tomb._
Leave my loneliness unbroken!--quit the bust above my door!
darted again from my face to Holmes's--"did you hear anything else
downward, and on a green meadow, gay with flowers of every color, stood
head. But the King looked kindly at her, stretched out his hand, and
you _have_ it, used when a thrust reaches the antagonist, from which our
house. The whole party of kinsmen stayed together till far in the
into which he fell, pierced his eyes. Then he wandered quite blind
from whence it came. There the Witch was feeding the birds in the seven
the letter-bags, and more than a thousand hackney-coaches and chariots
"Why, then we may find the lady of service. It must be our first
advisability of your going down to Devonshire without delay.
"You put the matter more flippantly, Mr. Holmes, than you would
and yet it seems larger at this distance, than the boats which are close
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have put a rope round the goat's
he lifted up the cover, and saw a White Snake lying on the dish. But
this deed."
this scene is in the winter. Shakespeare, in condensing the time to less
of the grate. The greater part of it was charred to pieces, but
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
"From one or two friends there on the occasion of my marriage."
_untalk'd of_ that follows. White objects to it that "_runaway_ seems to
as he was about to go to bed, the eldest came and brought him a cup of
saw the seven Dwarfs. But they were friendly and asked her what her
_Mercutio._                      That dreamers often lie.
renounce my daughter, you shall have as much as you wish."
"I drink," he said, "to the buried that repose around us."
him.
"No, but you evidently think it."
But she did not answer. He put the question in every language that he
And then he ran into the wood.
144. _Pout'st upon._ Cf. _Cor._ v. 1. 52: "We pout upon the morning."
of streets in the world.  At the entrance of the Quadrant stands the
Come to my Sun: shine forth and make me fair.
68. _Portly._ The word here seems to mean simply "well-behaved,
bore white and the other red roses. She had two children who were like
surprised to observe that by the gate there stood two soldierly
to the feast? You have no clothes and shoes, and yet would dance!"
33.  The Bank of England.
And the next evening, when she had washed up, she opened the second
26. _Rush'd aside the law._ Promptly eluded or contravened the law. The
Said Lina, "Be a fishpond, and I will be the duck upon it."
Then he took his bundle on his back, and soon forgot the pain of heart
first bewildered, stammering interview of the heart with the scarcely
time, distance," etc.
It is so vast, and so barren, and so mysterious."
But it happened that once when the Queen was bathing, a Frog crept
already the King's Son had another maiden by his side, whom he wanted
new factor must surely arrest his attention and renew his
sometimes when their teachers were looking at them, they would appear to
stake. Surely you are not going! You will help me to empty the
shape of the prints after that point, I noted that there were no
GUESTS _and_ Maskers
will I be;" and Butler, _Remains_: "they meant to leave reformation,
13. _Young Abraham Cupid._ The 2d and 3d quartos have "Abraham: Cupid;"
youth is liable. It is that 'love lying in the eyes' of early and just
THE FROG-KING; OR, IRON HENRY                                     13
_Benvolio._ Strike, drum.                              [_Exeunt._
husband, and I love him with all my heart!" until at last he allowed
perish at our very gates. The light is a signal to him that food
here! It is written that the shoemaker should meddle
seventh morning he could not raise himself up for faintness, and death
"We have been expecting you in these parts since Dr. Watson came
failed to correspond with the decorations.  The panes here were
the least morsel of it.
interference of the supernatural in the affairs of men. He spoke
Daughter.
she promised the Little Man what he wanted. And for that he once more
A greater power than we can contradict
the door, but sitting in her little room. He stopped his horse, and
each sought for himself a sleeping-place according to his nature and
This, then, was the explanation of the stealthy expeditions at
63. _Dispute._ That is, reason. The verb is used transitively in a
was able to sit down at once to dinner.
for the future, and his taste for entomology to the south of
her solitude passed her time in letting her sweet voice resound.
Night_, _Cor._ for _Coriolanus_, _3 Hen. VI._ for _The Third Part of
This it is and nothing more."
"That, and a deal more. I tell you, Watson, I've only known her
the Glass answered:
do that for you."
"What kind of a condition is it?" asked the King.
the clasp. Thereupon they entered the church, and the priest joined
night came on, they laid themselves down near one another upon the
most absurd one."
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
The soldier consented, and next day labored with all his strength, but
when one of them fell sick and died, the two others grieved so sorely
"Yes," said Hans.
dooing from offence_, and profit your selves. Though I saw the same
to the nettle-plant which was growing by the wayside?"
ACT II
apart and turn hurriedly round. Stapleton was the cause of the
to subdue it, and both then will regain their human form. After that,
All sober folks, who seldom play,
before us. In the fading light I could see that the centre was a
_3 Watch._ Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs, and weeps.
Only you must carry the apples and pears as well."
heaved up from below, and smelt putrid. Then he went and stood by it,
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
trustworthy witnesses of Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur, who at that time
never reached that island of refuge towards which he struggled
into the breast-feathers of the eagle. And as he was not at all tired,
fruit-trees, and a park quite half a mile long, in which were stags,
you. In the meantime just spread out your handkerchief on the bank."
_pardonnez-moi_; a hit at Frenchified affectation. The Cambridge ed. has
But he thought otherwise, and said, "Keep it. It is all the same, for I
65.  Southwark Bridge.
hour.
The lord told the doctor that he must show his skill by guessing what
without reference to the notes made at the time. I start them
Knot, including the disastrous falls of two Star-crost lovers Pyramus
loved them with all the love of a mother for her children.
beauties of Verona" with Rosaline. He had thought her "fair, none else
The poor tailor did not take long to think about it, but hurried out to
"Yes, sir."
the case before you and ask for your advice."
"_Alas, Falada, hanging there!_"
"_King's Daughter, youngest!
yell of terror and threw himself face downward upon the ground. I
indicates the pronunciation of the verb. The noun was pronounced
When they had walked for two hours, they came to a great piece of
gossips and superstitious friars (the naturally fit instruments of
consolation as I might, but I thought of the pony on the Grimpen
earth that his whole leg went in. And then in rage, he pulled at his
Till your poor panting steed is in danger of dropping.
erected and enlarged by different sovereigns, at distant periods of time.
"I bring nothing, I want to have something given me."
with those. And Holmes had expressly said that I should study the
We had risen to depart when Baskerville gave a cry of triumph,
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
beautiful. Watch all the fluctuations of emotion which pervade it, ...
RUMPELSTILTSKIN
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!                          60
to the Dwarfs' house to spend the night. He saw the coffin on the
thought indecorous. Cf. _Hen. VIII._ i. 4. 28.
my child; but what can I do?"
familiar description of Queen Mab amply proves. Critics have picked it
I fear that unless you can give me some more definite information
and scarcely had she spoken the words than a little table, covered with
he grew older he met wicked companions, and the devil entered
But the little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before. "The sun
a gypsy; Helen and Hero hildings and harlots;
a thousand in number, which must be picked up. And if by sunset, one
The feast that should haue been of pleasure and of ioy
serve at the royal table you must take off your hat."
and was hurrying back with her pitcher full of water, and when she saw
Again the agonised cry swept through the silent night, louder and
the room as quick as lightning. It was just as if invisible spirits
SCENE III. _Friar Laurence's Cell_
When the money was being counted out to him, it so happened that the
branches in a sombre tunnel over our heads. Baskerville shuddered
Is guilty of this lamentable chance!--
whisper, not a rustle, rose now from the dark figure over which
But scarcely had the golden saddle touched the horse than he began to
education have infused into her mind, without one real doubt of his
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
Now, fellow,
"But this is marvellous. It might be his portrait."
I said to him--"My dear Fortunato, you are luckily met.  How remarkably
himself; but you will know him at once by his rough voice and his black
There was once on a time, a Fisherman who lived with his wife in a
"And have no doubt searched all the huts until you came to this
that they should saddle his mare and unkennel the pack, and
prosecute him for trespass. He is learned in old manorial and
terror implored the help of the Old Woman, and in an instant they were
For blood of ours shed blood of Montague.--
the company bold enough to set foot within its precincts at all.
between this lady and the man Stapleton?"
_Romeo._ 'Tis torture, and not mercy; heaven is here,
lying stretched before us. It was not a pure bloodhound and it
she had gathered so many that she could carry no more, she remembered
passion takes possession of them. As Rosalind expresses it, Cupid may
84. _O, that deceit_, etc. Cf. _Temp._ i. 2. 468: "If the ill spirit
husband acting as butler and the wife as housekeeper. Their
to their look, has been admiringly denoted by various poets from time
moor, the death of the unfortunate pony, the weird sound which
of importance. There can be no question that Stapleton had a
"That is Rear-Admiral Baskerville, who served under Rodney in the
"Took her nothing, she gave me something."
letter-carriers begin to ring a bell about five o'clock every evening,
two girls listened as they sat and span. And close by them lay a lamb
"Phosphorus," I said.
it. This must be the burrow where the stranger lurked. At last my
of my apples. There, I will give you one."
did not help us much in proving murder against our man. There
to his servants, and they betrayed the secret to her, and told her
(Schmidt's _Lexicon_, Abbott's _Grammar_, Dowden's _Primer_, the
wicked pranks, and had squandered their entire wealth. He inquired
Immediately we do exile him hence.                               190
cheated him.
6. 12.
fell asleep.
flat woollen cap, about the size of a tea-saucer, which they generally
But she replied, "There is not enough for myself, so how can I give it
There she had to do hard work from morning till night, get up before
3. 76, i. 4. 10, iii. 4. 113, etc.
many years, and no one could deliver him.
shone out as brightly as the stars in heaven, and her cheeks bloomed a
he knocked and called out, "Dear little Sister, let me in."
[Picture: Bartholomew's Hospital]
The boy went down, and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both
of last night.
see that the goat is well taken care of, and driven where there is
would not forever punish the innocent beyond that third or
towards."
stabbed with a white wench's black eye; shot thorough
"Well?"
been, but we had left him behind us, and I am certain that he
At length a man came from a distance, and wooed her, who was called
stand; I will take the wall of any man or maid of
"To the foot-bridge?" she answered. "I don't talk to foot-bridges."
There's never a plank, nor a bridge in sight,
_Benvolio._ Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
fancy this jumbling and jolting.  But what a smoke they are in, master
the children, but the girl had not run out with her brothers, and the
"Did he ever strike you as being crazy--this brother of hers?"
much stronger sense than at present. In some cases, the etymological
but you will have no difficulty in recognizing him, and her also,
likely to come from a hospital than from a hunt, and that when
shown that _abraham_, _abram_, _aborne_, _aborn_, _abron_, _aubrun_,
WILLIAM J. ROLFE.
King's Son said, "I will go with you and bear you company," for he
6. _Me._ See on ii. 4. 23 above. We have the same construction in _him_,
_Capulet._ Why, I am glad on 't; this is well,--stand up.
day_ was considered proper only before noon, after which _good den_ was
"I may let the worthy old woman in," thought little Snow-White, and she
October, 1997  [Etext #1064]*
[Picture: The Link-boy]
Lord how it could full pretely haue prated with it [its] tong."
heard, and she sent a messenger over the country to inquire, far and
energy: 'Is it even so? Then I defy you, stars!' Yes; he is now master
and exceedingly musical, but of so peculiar a note and emphasis that,
"Any orders, sir?"
grave;" _Rich. II._ iv. 1. 5: "his timeless end," etc.
Queen.
"Well, it is rather obvious."
clothing, and pocket-money; exclusive of about twelve hundred
following Brooke in the introduction of this long narrative. Ulrici well
rise, seize you, and draw you down."
I pray thee, leave me to myself to-night,
"The beast was savage and half-starved. If its appearance did not
'You may be cajoled into imagining that your own special trade or
also most graciously forgive it, and that no ban is so heavy
measure.
novel, and entitled _Romeus and Juliet_. A prose translation of
Then in her great thirst the King's Daughter alighted, bent over the
into the bedroom of the King's Daughter. Up she sprang to see what it
"_Three-Eyes, are you waking?_"
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
of the moor sink into one's soul, its vastness, and also its grim
"No."
the nurse cursed in the pantry, and every thing in                80
again in the evening and say your password."
the Cock crowed. Then they burst through the window into the room, so
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
cries, "Knives to grind!  Scissors to grind!  Razors to grind!"
into him until he broke my mother's heart and dragged our name in
it was quite gilded.
speaks with the authority of a priest, and in the tone of stern rebuke.
all that is tender and melancholy in the nightingale, all that is
"Now," said Sir Henry Baskerville, "perhaps you will tell me, Mr.
them out of the forest. The Dwarf sprang up in a fright, but he could
A pack of blessings lights upon thy back,
"I did not know who you were, but I was determined to find out."
open. Pistol in hand, we all three rushed into the room.
down dead, and the cloak fell at the same time. Then the huntsman did
wanted to get out, and found that the doors and windows were bolted,
'Don't look behind you, you will only see how crooked your back is!'
a classic for beginners in the study of the dramatist; and in Rolfe's
41. _Deck up her._ Such transpositions are not rare in S. The 1st quarto
ants, and before long the little creatures had got all the pearls
would make it. Lines 3-5 seem to me only a highly poetical description
see these meteors? do you behold these exhalations?" and _Id._ v. 1. 19:
_Friar Laurence._ The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,
ii. 1. 234, the "stock" of _Id._ ii. 3. 26, and the "stuck" of _T.N._
him in the character of a free woman."
THE SPINDLE, THE SHUTTLE, AND THE NEEDLE
"No marks could show on the grass."
opened for it. How they did rejoice and embrace each other, and dance
And all that you to me did say,
sent the girl home, but took the boy.  Having no children of her own, she
"I well see," said the King, "that I owe thanks to you. Can I do
meet with the right people, the King will have to give me all the
elsewhere. Clarke suggests that _your lady's love_ may mean "the little
the shadows of the fog. A hound it was, an enormous coal-black
the Looking-Glass answered:
nearer and nearer. I shrank back into the darkest corner and
[Illustration: THE ELVES BEGAN TO STITCH, SEW, AND HAMMER]
hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
awake."
in reality his wife."
in Through the Window                                        294
"If that is the ladder by which one mounts, I will for once try my
Alone by the wall?
that it should not be through lack of energy or perseverance that
Frankland into his dining-room.
114. _What._ Who; as often. Cf. 130 below.
"No, no, sir, it is nothing--nothing at all!" the butler broke in;
evidently having a serious effect upon his health. I thought that
"Then the clothes have been the poor devil's death," said he. "It
She, however, did everything he bade her, without opposition, silently
head by his knowledge that Sir Charles was about to leave the
awaiting the break of day, when he should be led to death. But as soon
found themselves among strange people, who did not know their native
As he was looking at the fish, full of astonishment, it began to speak
door, and cried, "Good things to sell, cheap, cheap!"
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?--
suggestions are "tailor's" and "counsellor's;" but the carelessness of
can." But what did it avail him to scream his _croak, croak,_ after
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortals ever dared to dream before;
_Romeo._ Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
have fully made up one's mind, to be resolved. Here the form of
"Until we got three-quarters down Regent Street. Then my
out its little hands to the Queen. The stork laid it in her lap, and
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
niece Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his
"_Little Table!
little;" so they brought the broom and swept the Bear's hide clean.
"Yes," answered Hans, "she is within."
swiftly down, foaming and roaring amid the grey boulders. Both
therein who had plucked up six trees as if they were blades of corn. He
"sin."
Because it is an enemy to thee;
frighten its victim to death, at least it would paralyze the
_Nurse._ Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.         [_Exit._
A figure was approaching us over the moor, and I saw the dull red
79. _Neighbour-stained._ Because used in civil strife.
"Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had as much food as she
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
Things, that to hear them told, have made me tremble,--
Ma! Ma!_"
expedition became more mysterious than ever. The light shone
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,                           60
elbow, and I glanced for an instant at his face. It was pale and
another vowel, the _e_ or _i_ is made a separate syllable; as _ocean_,
him afterwards what I had done. It is true that if any sudden
And when they came to the third brook, the little sister heard how it
As for a birthday feast."
until once Rapunzel said to her, "Tell me, Dame Gothel, how it happens
bucklers_
"Not for the world, my dear Watson. I am perfectly satisfied with
and the little Roe wept also, and sat sorrowfully near to her. But at
steer than of a picture. I didn't know that you found time for
boot from under a cabinet.
was erected in the reign of George the Second, in 1730.
"No," said the boy, "I will not do that. The King has forbidden it,"
how he dares, being dared.
ever met our eyes. If the earth told a true story, then Stapleton
He had heard also that Sir Charles was superstitious and had
said, "I will think of something that shall put an end to you," and by
The others came up and each called out, "Somebody has been lying in my
beautiful."
59. _Displant._ Transplant. S. uses the word only here and in _Oth._ ii.
himself against them. Mice squeaked in every corner, and gnawed
The county will be here with music straight,
So she went into her mother. And as she was thus covered with gold, she
_Lady Capulet._ Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
"On the contrary, I think we are particularly hot upon the trail,
unbolted the door and bought the pretty laces.
not discouraged, and we determined to try again. The next night
212. _Faith, here 'tis_, etc. S. here follows Brooke:--
around him.
My will to her consent is but a part;
right away to my hotel. Suppose you and your friend, Dr. Watson,
it again. He dyed his face brown, so that his own mother would not have
happens to a person under the manifest influence of fear will seem to
In her anger she clutched Rapunzel's beautiful tresses, wrapped them
which I read to you when first I came. I mention this small
tongue of poetry. We have a similar change in the first scene of _J.C._,
But the lazy thing answered, "As if I wanted to soil myself!" and on
"Oh, you know the stories that the peasants tell about a phantom
But to his foe suppos'd he must complain,
120. _My life_, etc. "He means that, as bereft of Juliet he should die,
washed him, and one dried his face with her tail.
sang mournfully upon the young boughs of the birch-trees.
Then said the gardener's boy, "I am grown up, and will go to the wars
When she has milked their full udders into her clean pails, she sets off
The Wolf thought to himself, "What a tender young creature! what a nice
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
118. _Thy._ Pope substituted "my," but _thy_ may be defended on the
there with a small cudgel in his hand, and said, "What does my lord
"No," said little Snow-White, "I dare not take anything."
_Juliet._ No, no; but all this did I know before.
had disappeared. Everything was working in my favour, and I swore
He went home, seated himself cross-legged on his work-table, and
easily arranged. And now, if we are too late for dinner, I think
[Illustration: THE KING'S DAUGHTER PULLED OFF HIS HAT]
here."
quite inconceivable. It is a "conceit" of the worst Elizabethan type.
"Very large."
The children walking two and two, in red, and blue, and green;
great ugliness, however, she shut herself in her room, and allowed no
_Romeo._ Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
no means advance, but three of them, the boldest, or it may
whom the most direct way is always the most natural. He walked
_Juliet._ Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
"Pray take a seat, Sir Henry. Do I understand you to say that you
3. 113: "I am no vaunter, I;" _Id._ v. 3. 185: "I am no baby, I," etc.
_Nurse._ You say well.                                           120
and Attendants.
"Because he foresaw that she would be very much more useful to
"None. The only other kinsman whom we have been able to trace was
"Fool that I was to hold my hand. And you, Watson, see what comes
My will to her consent is but a part;
Sir Charles Baskerville which occurred a few days before that
Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,                       80
Knight remarks, "Capulet is evidently a man of ostentation; but his
two lines below, where some eds. have "it" (from 1st quarto).
Charles, who fled with a sinister reputation to South America,
89. _Ancient._ Not of necessity old in years, but long settled there and
play now.
Nares, the phrase got this meaning from the fact that the carriers of
"Be quiet, and do not weep," answered the Frog, "I can help you. But
and on each plate a little spoon. Moreover, there were seven little
deliver the letter to his father "early in the morning." The night
The country farmer, who has been used to nothing but ploughed fields, and
[Picture: The Paviors]
by the desire to frighten old Sir Charles to death. No wonder the
"the memory of so perfect, sound, and so approved love" by the "stately
tremulousness and meditation as before.
<p>So he went, and when he got there, he saw what seemed to be a large
geese went walking backward and forward, or paddled in the water.
Unfold the imagin'd happiness that both
of the sinking sun. Still steadily rising, we passed over a
obvious disadvantage."
"That is so. Someone, then, cut out the message with a pair of
remarks that thus the maids and matrons of Italy are still carried to
omitted, but only on account of their disparagement of the
(_a_) In a large class of words in which _e_ or _i_ is followed by
See also iii. 5. 12 below.
notes. The modern musician would call it variation" (Elson). Cf. _1 Hen.
A villain that is hither come in spite,
before we go into this matter?"
before they give any one quite over.  Numbers have been restored to life
78. _Yonder._ Ulrici "cannot perceive why Juliet must designate a
path branches off. There, fearing that perhaps I had come in the
as they looked the thing tore the throat out of Hugo
his anxiety, he groaned and said to his wife, "What is to become of us?
more rigid in his Puritanism,--but nevertheless lusted after literary
will not be long before the missing boot is found."
before her. Then she was forced to put on the red-hot shoes, and dance
wandered on to the moor and had never come back. I gave him such
fire, came and tasted the lips of all three. At last she remained
Neolithic man had once slumbered. The ashes of a fire were heaped
fell asleep and began to snore very loud. The huntsman was just passing
people!--for the sin of quarrelsomeness" (Clarke).
to their father's house. They knocked at the door; and when the woman
280. _What made your master?_ What was your master doing? Cf. _A.Y.L._
my trowel, I began vigorously to wall up the entrance of the niche.
her. When they came to the meadow, there lay the Wolf by the tree and
That Rumpelstiltskin is my name!_"
That is about the average span of its "eternity." In Romeo's case it did
shall not die of a cough."
I had been casting round for some excuse by which I could get
however, made a pillow of a horse's skull which was lying on the
87. _Contrary._ Oppose, cross; the only instance of the verb in S.
us, we should at any rate have died together!"
before or after an even syllable which is properly accented, is reckoned
After the conversation which I have quoted about Barrymore, Sir
11. _Adventure._ Cf. ii. 2. 84 above.
the stout gentleman with the wig ought to be a Reynolds. They are
More fierce and more inexorable far
upon both of us by our first experience of Baskerville Hall. As
"Good master," perhaps, "do not give such a smack;
did not come home, the second set out, wishing to find the Golden
summons of the manager. He stood now gazing with great reverence
was promised him after the King's death. But the Princes were bewitched
_Sampson._ Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb
hit him about the legs with a switch and with stinging-nettles.
it. We after the convict, and a hell-hound, as likely as not,
inquiry and found that only two lives intervened between him and
"Very good; and I will ask you also to do it blindly, without
_Mercutio._ O, here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches
"Is there anything between the hedges and the walk?"
also in the water, and laid it on the meadow, so that it should bleach
Hans comes to Grethel. "Good day, Grethel."
see if she is telling the truth."
"Go to her; she is King already."
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
"Well, that is what we have to find out."
The shoemaker, however, who had driven God out of his heart, took the
the rooms, and causing the wild music of the orchestra to seem as the
turned away again. It was then that it left the print which was
To meet her new-beloved any where.
"But where have you the jewel which I gave you at the church-door?"
self-contained friend? These were hidden fires, indeed!
In thee at once, which thou at once wouldst lose.
from whence resounded the joyous music of trumpets and kettle-drums.
probably do if you were brought into personal contact with these
that he was not.
_Romeo._                         At the hour of nine.
_Romeo._                         Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!
stands in the hall of the velvet.  And then, for a moment, all is
Cf. _M.N.D._ i. 1. 73.
able to establish the identity of the man and the woman and knew
"Exactly. I have no doubt that you and I could carry it so far.
_Romeo._ Whither?
And bakes the elf-locks in foul sluttish hairs,                   90
"Wait here. He must be near his light. Let us see if we can get a
In his trouble and fear, he went down into the courtyard, and took
At that the King could not restrain himself. He sprang toward her, and
interest which the hunter must feel as he watches the trap into
127. _Conduct._ Conductor, guide. Cf. _Temp._ v. 1. 244:--
could have come there during the night, but Two-Eyes saw that it had
_safety_ (trisyllable) in _Ham_. i. 3. 21; _business_ (trisyllable, as
etc. Coles, in his _Art of Simpling_, says that witches "take likewise
[_She throws herself on the bed._
The mother did not want to do it, and said, "Am I to lose my dearest
But, an you will not wed, I'll pardon you;
she pricked her finger with the needle, and three drops of blood fell
Hen. IV._ i. 3. 56. So _God bless the mark_! in _M. of V._ ii. 2. 25,
The myrtle dark green, and the jessamine pale,
The cry had been loud on account of its vehemence, but it had
their intentions are evil they might do you a mischief, and we
ships bring home tea, coffee, silks both raw and manufactured, cottons,
wedding-dress, and asked if it was for sale?
regained their human form, but neither knew where the other was. They
it lies, and send the engines, which are kept at the back of the
and went to the feast.
with them as before.
The whole road was strewn with the pearls which flowed from her eyes.
been walking upon his toes.  One Murphy, a gipsy
Sherlock Holmes made a note of it.
onward. Far away on the path we saw Sir Henry looking back, his
will back thee.
With that, he reached the sea, and the sea was quite black and thick,
child, as well?"
pleased to see me so happy."
the houses in the city.  It is a very profitable business; for, by
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
Hall and the moor are not very pleasant places when one is
the child, it said:
The ill-tempered shoemaker made a wry face, and thought, "The greater
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
"Yes, we shall make our little ambush here. Get into this hollow,
"Alas, what does it profit me?" said the unhappy woman, "that I should
That living mortals hearing them run mad;--
Then Lady Capulet comes sweeping by with her train of velvet, her black
the impress of truth upon it.
uncertain light. Before us lay the dark bulk of the house, its
Baskerville Hall, October 13th.
Soon after, up came a nobleman in his coach, dashing along at full
Hans went into the stable, cut out all the calves' and sheep's eyes,
"A presentation, I see," said Holmes.
The little sister, however, was dreadfully frightened when she saw that
if so, it has since regained its poetical character. Tennyson uses it
172. _Peace._ Theobald repeated the word for the sake of the measure.
from whom they come, then I have no peace."
clock upon the stairs. It was a most melancholy vigil and ended
chiming of the clock should produce in them no similar emotion; and
Sweet scented and gracefully flowing,
Mortimer, Dr. Mortimer, to think that you should not have called
"Closed and padlocked."
sexes in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, but S. never makes it
bristling beard, and hung with matted hair, it might well have
But if with quenched lyfe not quenched be thine yre,
gladly took him in. "What have you made of yourself, my Son?" asked the
shadows trailed down the walls and hung like a black canopy above
six little shirts of Star-Flowers for us. And if one single word falls
it. Away the Fox went, over stock and stone, till his hair whistled in
The Bride said, "Yes," intending to cheat her as on the former evening.
something to share with others.
stretched out his feet and said, "Pull off my boots for me," and made
satisfied. Then she again cried:
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
there that Sir Henry made the acquaintance of Miss Stapleton.
47. _Her beauty hangs._ The reading of the later folios, adopted by many
too, will come and lie down to sleep."
was hardly able to utter one word for weakness. His cheeks were white,
there are now none of the maskers who venture; for the night is waning
with his sharp eyes. Then said he, "The King's Daughter shall still not
Thereupon he himself locked up the room, and left her in it alone. So
it meant to him, this first sight of that strange spot where the
Up to the ears.--Come, we burn daylight, ho!
_Mercutio._ You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
stretched out their necks, ran to meet her, cackling all the while.
If any one came within one hundred paces of the castle he was obliged
pains he took to wash the gold off again, all was to no purpose.
anything else. Yes, I have very little hesitation in saying that
in our humble way do something to make things more easy for him
illustrative quotations from the plays. Mrs. Cowden-Clarke's _Girlhood
of that kind. If she were not dumb, and could defend herself, her
The Bride asked her what she meant by that, then she said, "Let me
or in your kindness you would have brought me out some comfort or
Then the young Roe sprang away; so happy was he and so merry in the
nothing but the face of the full moon shone on it.
of Grimm's _Fairy Tales_ unmutilated in their literary perfection.
leaves fell from the trees, and the water rose and roared as if it were
He unrolled one section and held it over his knee. "Here you have
clearly known hath less terror than that which is but
of the time) Malone and Steevens make _skains-mates_ mean "cut-throat
The King had already been married once, and had by his first wife,
And when she opened the door, an old gray-haired man was sitting at the
rose with a frightful roar, and streamed out over the open country. The
the high mullioned windows, throwing watery patches of colour
gettings, to get understanding.
Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?--
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage,
One of them is lighted up brightly, and all goes on merrily within, but
83. _County._ Count; as often in this play. See also _M. of V._ i. 2.
95-109) is thoroughly girlish, though we must note that his first
Meantime the huntsman sat beside the beautiful maiden, and as no one
Or cowslips peeping out so gay
When unroasted, unboiled,
_rope-tricks_ in _T. of S._ i. 2. 112, which Schmidt explains as "tricks
And with the sight of glittring gold inflamed hath his hart:
you, sir. He was dressed like a toff, and he had a black beard,
"Some poaching case, no doubt?" said I with an indifferent
Then the first looked round and saw that there was a little hole on his
Where Tybalt slaine of Romeus was layde the other day."
"Good evening, Mother."
as soon as both her eyes were shut, she fell asleep. The little fellow
sometimes softly sobbing. At last her strength came to an end, she sank
divided by curtains, called _traverses_, which were a substitute for
_Romeo._ Farewell! I will omit no opportunity
III
strength. Make haste before it gets cold."
spite of his considerable wealth he was simple in his
before the man's daughter as well as before the woman's daughter.
46. _Slop._ For _slops_ (= large loose breeches), see _Much Ado_, iii.
The Giants in Guildhall.
So he went with them.
A lover may bestride the gossamer
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,                      10
27. _Patience._ A trisyllable, as in v. 3. 221 and 261 below.
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
"We had best ascertain if he is really there, or if by any
youngest started back in terror, but the eldest still declared that
meat and drink, and took her to a well-made bed, which felt like silk
Well! who would believe it? why, that is lazy Tom, turned knife-grinder
_Abram_: i. 1(5). Whole no. 5.
The Monument is a very fine pillar, 202 feet high, having a staircase
something which terrified him so that he lost his wits and ran
"Then get your revolver and put on your boots. The sooner we
Four Winds, and have inquired for you and have helped you against the
of the city are silent on the subject. A tale very similar, the scene of
her shoe, and how it had stained her white stocking. Then he turned his
with an allusion to the famous archer, Adam Bell, and was followed by
[Picture: The Fire-plug]
And so it was arranged. Resisting Stapleton's offer of
fulfilled, tarry until the time of the full moon. Then take the
midst of the room: this is _Dun_ (the cart-horse), and a cry is raised
said, "Sister, let me out, I must be off."
Neolithic skull in the barrow on Long Down. He helps to keep our
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
masterpiece.
[Picture: Westminster Hall]
notes are some calling attention to portions of the early draft of the
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
seat?"
truth to the portrait of the lover. Why, after all, should we be
chased a wild beast so eagerly that none of his attendants could follow
"Interesting, though elementary," said he as he returned to his
narrative, in which I have tried to make the reader share those
4. _Choler._ For the play upon the word, cf. Jonson, _Every Man in his
"What must I do?" asked the peasant.
years, when a strange huntsman came to the King asking for work, and
"I knew him," she said. "But if he had kept faith with me I
showed intense delight. They dressed themselves with the greatest
did not deserve to be called running before."
"And, now, gentlemen," said the baronet with decision, "it seems
and the next scene (iv. 2) is in the evening of that day. Juliet comes
"Ah," said the man, "why should I go there again?"
_Friar Laurence._        Welcome, then.                           80
alarmed and said, "What a lot of gold he can carry away!"
the doors opened, and a stately King came in with a great retinue.
shaking till they were all down. And when she had gathered them into a
a countrywoman, and so she went over the Seven Mountains to the Seven
And apprehend thee for a felon here.                            69
The goat answered:
has said, "the play is so Italian that one may read it with increasing
Then she turned her back on Ash-Maiden, and hurried away with her two
So one of them lighted him to his bedroom, one pulled his shoes off,
height, or a considerable portion of the interior, open to the ground,
brown earth had become ruddy, the brick had changed to granite,
And then the poem, like the play, ends with a reference to the
of rare birds in the castle.
our mercy before he can resist."
ACT I
To frett for anger, or for griefe to mone?"
Dramatist, and Man_ (1900); Phin's _Cyclopaedia and Glossary of
Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;
For fear of that, I still will stay with thee,
in every line by which S. has set her before us."
they found that they had been sleeping quite close to a precipice, and
Chapter 3.
Through many a long and winding lane,
but from the context we see that this is merely a plausible excuse for
Bear hence this body and attend our will;
accordance with the dates given in the play. In iv. 1. 90 the Friar says
inhospitable abode. Was he our malignant enemy, or was he by
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
you will be safe enough.
pertains to medicine. Thirdly, have a sign painted with the words, 'I
marble, and many servants, who flung wide the doors. The walls were all
her pocket, but they made no track, for the crafty Little Man had just
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
Chapter 1  Mr. Sherlock Holmes
processions and riots, and they have become so insignificant, as to be
well off I am down here, I cannot stay any longer. I must go up again
20. _Bound._ For the quibble, Steevens compares Milton, _P.L._ iv.
"You acknowledge then that you made an appointment with Sir
There we have the true Juliet--the Juliet whose maiden modesty and
Man stood before him, and said, "Master, what are your commands?"
"The peasants say it is the Hound of the Baskervilles calling for
aloft in the blue heaven. He and I seemed to be the only living
"Perfectly."
sheltered us. I caught one glimpse of his short, squat, strongly
one corner and watched the doings. He did not know what to say, but
how we were getting on. He insisted upon my climbing into his
81.  New Milk from the Cow.
With tears augmenting the fresh morning's dew,
and well-disposed toward the child. There were thirteen of them in his
they have arrived at a pretty thorough understanding of their mutual
you this morning I should have come on my own account. I
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, sick health!
I ate thee alone!_"
Then she laid her hands on the girl's head, blessed her, and said,
Staying for thine to keep him company;
had been brought into contact with him.  In these days of
syllables) may be added, forming what is sometimes called a _female_
no more of it, so I concluded that it was all a dream."
South America. For God's sake, sir, I beg of you not to let the
He saw that she was the Nix of the Mill-pond, and in his fright did not
however, my fears were set at rest, for it was the acrid fumes of
Did lack a parallel."
went on constantly, what he cut out in the evening was finished by
34. _Hunt's-up._ The tune played to wake and collect the hunters
comparative regularity from that period until the latest. Thus, in
Under these windows, white and azure lac'd
This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
a cock on the frontispiece. In the second, turn your cart and your two
head hidden beneath its wings.
I shall never forgive myself for having left him to his fate."
Whom their o're-cloyed Country vomits forth
stayed for the most part at Coombe Tracey, and only used the hut
The miller said, "Why not? But how am I to manage them?"
Nevertheless, the seven years had gone by with him as if they were six
door. I had descended from my gig and was standing in front of
then it answered as before:
I have done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in
and he is big, and we perhaps send him here to draw something to drink,
When an hour or two had passed by, and the King believed that they had
keep off the water at such times.
There were no attendants at home; they had absconded to make merry in
But how things do happen in the world! On the very same day his former
lightly, but it was evident that he was very much in earnest.
very busy of late, for the notes which I had from Baker Street
anything in this new house."
of faction and discord, are detorted to criminal partiality" (Johnson).
will have personal reasons for bewailing his untimely end.  His
The Princess Went Out and Gathered Star-Flowers                  130
To the first giver," etc.
lines in which two extra unaccented syllables may occur.
"_Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
his sister, who is said to be a young lady of attractions. There
"Yes, it's rather an uncanny place altogether. Look at the
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.                        171
SCENE III.--_A Churchyard_, etc. Hunter says: "It is clear that S., or
Who in this land is the fairest of all?_"
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
give you good luck. There stands an old tree. Cut it down, and you will
me, who is your father?"
to regret it."
But it's only big stones!_"
Romeo, and Juliet; those who make it a possessive plural generally
a loaf of bread, a tinned tongue, and two tins of preserved
trouble, and no one knew how to stop it. At last, when only a single
"What say you?" cried the blower, "that we are prisoners! Rather than
become an excellent huntsman, the lord of the village took him into his
forms a singular contrast to her cool and unemotional brother.
down and wept with them.
137. _Ropery._ Roguery. Steevens quotes _The Three Ladies of London_,
Am I the master here, or you? go to.                              80
once more. I was married to you in the church, and I am your lawful
But of theyr couent ay should be accompanide with one
long hair to the ground. There she sat, and would have remained sitting
at each lapse of an hour, the musicians of the orchestra were
"Yet nature is made better by no mean,
would certainly have fallen into it in the darkness, if they had gone
in _A.Y.L._ v. 4. 63 fol.
see them. Together they gathered the finest and costliest of them.
Sherlock Holmes. The latter yawned and tossed the end of his
end the Wise Women bestowed their magic gifts upon the baby. One gave
care of the goat, and yet go to sleep while you are doing it! In the
brooding over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite which
thins away in front of us," said Holmes as we stood waiting for
as they were sitting at the marriage-feast, the music suddenly stopped,
The prince by him (his counsell cravde) was holpe at time of neede.
washes himself with it, his eyes again. If blind people did but know
iii. 2. 141: "his paly lips."
breakfast I met Mrs. Barrymore in the long corridor with the sun
[Picture: The Lamplighter]
was not difficult for me to guess that it was to see her that you
"Dear me! It is a stake for which a man might well play a
"No--or, let me see--why, yes. Barrymore, Sir Charles's butler, is
a chair close by, was a pair of shoes embroidered with pearls.
Brooke just above. For _gear_, see ii. 4. 97 above.
winds, and brought the key. The door opened with difficulty, and the
12. _The light._ For the poet's frequent playing on the different senses
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
"I ought to leave you to your ill-luck," said the Fox, "but I pity you,
"A mason," I replied.
her. Her father and his whole Court arrived, and wished her happiness
cook's beck and call, and do the dirtiest work. In each of her pockets
(_d_) Monosyllabic exclamations (_ay_, _O_, _yea_, _nay_, _hail_, etc.)
Who is already sick and pale with grief
[Illustration]
prettily;" and 1 _Hen. VI._ ii. 3. 57: "a riddling merchant."
LITTLE TABLE SET THYSELF, GOLD-ASS, AND CUDGEL OUT OF THE SACK    89
Street which is called White Hall, Westminster, having capacious
_Mercutio._ Good Peter, to hide her face; for her
"Shakespeare adopted verse as the general tenor of his language, and
our poor friend had fallen, and from the summit we gazed out over
subsequent scene (v. 5) in which his groom visits the dethroned king in
When he had made two snips, he saw the little Red-Cap shining, and then
in _T.N._ ii. 3. 85: "There dwelt a man in Babylon, lady, lady!"
_Servant._ Ye say honestly; rest you merry!
court to the lady, even though it was part of his own plan, still
parents and friends, conferring their principal counsels with drunken
the Fortune of War, a figure of a boy carved in wood, on which was
Monaldi e Filippeschi, uom senza cura,
An engine is a very clever contrivance: the pipes convey the water over
_Mercutio._ Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.                  60
Cannon were brought out, and the palace was soon in flames. When the
_Tybalt._ Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
your shoulders, you only have to wish to be in a certain place, and you
againe, and when you see your yce is risen up and drie, then take it out
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
of Shakespeare's other youthful heroines whose ages are definitely
her human form, and ran out into the courtyard in the shape of a Donkey.
castle. An Old Woman was standing with a wonderfully beautiful maiden,
Prince's Street, and Bank Buildings.  It is truly interesting to behold
_Servant._ Now I'll tell you without asking. My                   80
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,
her father (i. 2. 9) and her mother (i. 3. 12) also do.
critics never seen--
Chorus.
the rooms in which it was held.  These were seven--an imperial suite.
"No, sir; nothing."
loudly and clearly proclaimed the time. They asked if the creature were
with him is beauty slain."
self-respect--everything. I knew Sir Charles's generosity, and I
The two Gold-Children rejoiced, when they saw each other again. They
"Do you know the names?"
_Sampson_: i. 1(41). Whole no. 41.
What a wonderful place!  I am full of surprise,
out hunting."
into the succession, how could he explain the fact that he, the
For I will raise her statue in pure gold,
162. _Timeless._ Untimely. Cf. _T.G. of V._ iii. 1. 21: "your timeless
Which the commission of thy years and art
Hard by a great forest, dwelt a poor woodcutter with his wife and his
fixed by the Nurse's talk about the age of Juliet. She asks Lady Capulet
that if Sir Charles could have spoken with me before his death he
_M. of V._ iii. 2. 226: "my very friends and countrymen," etc.
and useful occupation.
some of his godly friends may have admonished him--that the character of
title_. The passage would not call for explanation if critics had not
Until I've braided all my hair,
stockings on for him, one tied his garters, one brought his shoes, one
fire, that projected its rays through the tinted glass and so glaringly
"And you go in disgrace. By thunder, you may well be ashamed of
I wish the bear had remained in Russia or Poland, rather than, after
as in _Macb._ v. 8. 16, _Ham._ iv. 1. 40, etc. See also v. 3. 258 below.
took the tablecloth with him.
"Exactly. But surely, if your supernatural theory be correct, it
nettle-plant, and she said:
_Lady Capulet._ She's not fourteen.
She made a short stop,
nearest telegraph-office? Grimpen. Very good, we will send a
straw was spun, and all the reels were full of gold.
The first and second time that she did this, her sisters did not notice
_Enter three or four_ Servingmen, _with spits, logs, and baskets_
Then she was terribly angry, and took him up and threw him with all her
matter?"
opportunity was a good one. I alighted and sent a message to Sir
positive and possibly a harsh nature. You would find him an
_Predominant_ was originally an astrological term. See _A.W._ i. 1. 211,
butterflies, insects, books both ancient and modern, precious stones,
12. _Learn._ Teach; as often. Cf. _A.Y.L._ i. 2. 5, _Cymb._ i. 5. 12,
_Friar Laurence._ I am the greatest, able to do least,
That murther'd me. I would forget it fain,
Then all three were delighted. The huntsman drew off the Wolf's skin
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
_T.G. of V._, where Julia and Lucetta are discussing the suitors of the
I was wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound
And as she thus lamented, some one said to her, "What ails you, King's
_Romeo._ A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear
124. _Foolish._ A mere repetition of the apologetic _trifling_.
who had been betrothed to Maid Maleen. His father had chosen another
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
"Exactly."
That all the best of euery stocke are earthed in one graue;
students the abridged ed. of 1899 is preferable); Schmidt's _Shakespeare
a single emerald. "Take great care of it," said she, "it will bring you
made."
From Love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
you a good present when we get home."
recognized the right Princess.
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock.--
67. _Why, how now, Juliet!_ Mrs. Jameson remarks: "In the dialogue
by the expedient of pasting printed words upon it. It ran:
companion's nerves seemed to be stronger than mine.
He had on a tight-fitting parti-striped dress, and his head was
after another, till she is dead."
relations between him and the Barrymores. This also you cleared
"I am sorry, madam, but I must repeat it."
And breath'd such life with kisses in my lips
every one appears to be on business, and what a general buzz and din we
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing!
himself from sleeping, and next morning again an apple was gone.
clear glimpse of it, and then the match flickered and went out,
of this gate, or bar, has been delayed much longer than was expected.
the brazen lungs of the clock a sound which was clear and loud and deep
"Yes, I think it would be as well."
and ran out and found Maid Maleen. "Girl, what did you say to the
yet depend."
horseback, which was erected in place of the cross.  When Cromwell ruled,
are a conductor of light. Some people without possessing genius
they were salutes.
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
And gave him two buns and a tart,
which he lived, however chimerical the cause of it might be, was
with two beds. Shake them up, and put white linen on them, and then I,
word) none can hold a place." The general sense of the passage is clear,
"There is nothing in common between my father and me," she said.
Then the third son said, "Father, let me have my turn, if you please."
That yender doth in masking weede besyde the window stand.
I am not the true Bride._"
A lightning before death; O, how may I                          90
THE LITTLE HOUSE IN THE WOOD                                     352
once more upon their return journey. Long afterwards when I had
and thus they traveled onward, until they entered the royal palace.
34. _Healthsome._ Wholesome; used by S. only here.
hate;" where the accent is shifted from the second to the first
Apples. When the apples were getting ripe they were counted, but on the
finished, and all flew out again.
When they did not come back, the father grew impatient, and said, "They
Steevens quotes Greene, _Tully's Love_: "to contrary her resolution;"
"What then?"
words mentioned in the notes on the plays.
scandal of the Nonpareil Club, while in the second he had
me.                                                               10
implies a certain degree of vexation, some dissolution, much order, and
poured forth such abundance of tears, as with the same they did evacuate
us. And then again, sir, we were both of us very fond of Sir
her your Queen, I will show you the way out of the forest."
Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
But view the things of most renown,
84: "Now, afore me, a handsome fellow!" So _before me_, as in _T.N._ ii.
gets home it is suffocated.
one at Boston was used as a lighthouse _lantern_ in the olden time.
The sun for sorrow will not show his head.
that it was a pleasure to look inside it. In the summer, Rose-Red took
56. _Gore-blood._ Clotted blood. Forby remarks that the combination is
87. _Death._ The abstract for the concrete. The _dead man_ is Romeo, who
narrow Gothic window looked out upon a closed corridor which pursued
It is curious that there is not the slightest hint of all this anywhere
FRIAR JOHN,     } Franciscans.
"The baronet himself told him about the family hound, and so
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
For my wife, Dame Ilsabil,
dry weather and never know the difference until the mire has them
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof
was the town-residence of his late Majesty: it was furnished with the
that nothing fell in. As he was sitting thus, his finger hurt him so
that I thought I should never have done wringing his hand.
So far I have been able to quote from the reports which I have
I wonder at this haste; that I must wed
they might stay in the kitchen and be scullions.
'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
taken to prevent the recurrence of a similar accident in the new
fencers, on the same occasion, without knowing, I suppose, any reason
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.--
tailors!"
that all was not well, but I could read his fears upon his wicked
"How dare you," said she with angry look, "descend into my garden and
"Do what I bid you," replied the soldier. And again this third night,
and mellow and peaceful in the golden evening light, and yet as I
said she. "I had not even time to put on my hat. I must not stop,
and iii. 3. 20 above.
as I held them up my own fingers smouldered and gleamed in the
members he has possibly given some surgical assistance, and which
measure. The verb is always _contract_. See also on i. 4. 103 above.
in any case he made a miscalculation, and that, if we had not
For nothing can be ill if she be well.
_Juliet._ Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
Hottentot.
Who, all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
The waiting-maid now mounted Falada, and the true Bride the bad horse,
her, and she was thirsty once more. When they came to a stream of
away, she hid her shoe under the bed.
give me your help."
"Now set to work. If by to-morrow morning early, you have not spun this
prologue to act ii. There is no division of acts or scenes in the early
"No, sir, I don't know that."
can make an Emperor. I will be Emperor. Go instantly."
profanely of love" (Knight). For the full phrase, see _Much Ado_, iii.
property; if any one put it down, and said:
mouldy into the bargain. Even my coat does not go as far as it might.
"John Clayton, 3 Turpey Street, the Borough. My cab is out of
she killed it, cooked, and ate it; and that was a feast-day with her.
Thomas Dellow and his sister.
his _Characters_, says of the "Superstitious Man" that "if he stumbled
crutch. "Don't get angry, dear Sir," said she, "you are growing as red
uses this abbreviation only twice. Brooke uses _Capel_ and _Capulet_
"Why should he not go to the home of his fathers?"
CONCERNING ARTHUR BROOKE
cut square at the end, and a pale face. I don't know as I could
common."
One of these, concerning which I have said little, is the escaped
The girl wandered about in the wood until night, and then she too
_Enter_ CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, _and others_
At night, when they went to rest, the two others would not let him have
evidence."
same kind of masquerading see a specimen in _T. of A._ [i. 2], where
at the door.
_Nurse._                         Even so lies she,
these hostile parents. But their unfortunate and piteous overthrow is
from Bunyan and others. _Versal_ is a vulgarism for _universal_.
I charge thee in the prince's name, obey.
word.
"Behave well, Hans."
They covet to be knowne from _Capels_, where they pass,
taken from the use of salt in preserving meat. For the reference to salt
again." All that he asked was done, and soon he was riding on his
return wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel.' That
Cupid's bow, such as we see on medals and bas-reliefs; while the English
as his are upon Sir Henry, and with your help he is already
away with the ass, and thought that he had his Gold-Ass.
forest with her."
"I said, sir, to the precisely scientific mind. But as a
His son was but a ward two years ago.
"The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
and said, "How are we to get out of the forest now?"
himself, and roared till the leaves on the tree trembled. "He who tries
no word of it."
honey of his music vows." Steevens quotes Sidney, _Arcadia_: "Death
person of importance.
acknowledge, my dear Holmes, that I have done you very well in
The birds instantly took to flight with loud outcries, but one dropped
together, as if they had hands, and the youths were caught in them,
and I could only surmise what his course of action would be. My
Sir Henry Baskerville."
thou lovest me, let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and          10
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.--
keep you merry), cf. _A.Y.L._ v. 1. 65, etc. It was a common form of
"Most modern. A most practical, pressing matter, which must be
_Lady Capulet._ We shall be short in our provision;
a figurative example of it.
the time was propitious for my excursion. It was a pleasant walk
]
But Romeo may not. More validity,
instant how delicate my mission was.
14.  The Horse Armory.
and told them what had happened. Then they warned her once more to be
danger had threatened him I was too far away to be of use, and
Her heart would surely break in two!_'"
days been cut into a granite quarry. The face which was turned
"No, I can't say that."
here is over," she said to her, "but when I depart, house and parlor
father and mother; a higher duty has taken place of that which she owed
goes?"
the goat, but she was still very hungry, because her sisters had given
Hereupon the Wise Woman departed.
Who take the ruffian billows by the top."
horsemen, and I will blow them all into the air."
will have to suffer for it."
King, and said, "I won't tend the geese with that girl any longer!"
Golden Horse. But of one thing you must take heed. Put on him the
business for Will Kempe that should not be entirely out of harmony with
Suddenly my thoughts were interrupted by the sound of running
_Enter_ CAPULET _and_ Nurse
of you brings me the best horse, to him will I give the mill. And in
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
looking out of one of the windows.
If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help,
appeared. She then asked her, "You shine the whole night through, and
as she ought to have done, she thoughtlessly sang:
little house, the two were married, lived peacefully and happily, and
occhi d' un turchino verdiccio, simile a quel del mare.'"
_Prince._ Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
chair and worked.
"There is an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the mire.
herself, "What shall I do? Shall I shear first, or shall I eat first?
mischievous smile, "but a country doctor, as you very astutely
"The eldest spoke. 'I love my Father as dearly as the sweetest sugar.'
the title of _Royal Exchange_, by sound of trumpet.
heavily raftered with huge baulks of age-blackened oak. In the
The tales are presented here in their original form, with nothing left
unhappy about it, for she was his favorite child.
It happened, that the eldest wanted to go into the forest to hew wood.
Gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth,
you sought him. I am the youngest of that name,
if he be still alive, the son of Sir Charles Baskerville's
the ancient name _Thibault_. Cf. iii. 1. 77 below.
servant may be directed the way he sees Tybalt coming, and in the mean
_A Mouse did run,_
And if any one else came to invite her, he said, "This is my partner."
the wooden _flask_ in which they kept their powder."
everything, was sentenced to death.
Once upon a time, there was a sweet little girl, who was loved by every
"Where is the goat, Hans?"
O, now I would they had chang'd voices too!
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
Tunnel, which connects Highgate with Hornsey.
of the good salad, so that they became human again.
in the immediate neighbourhood of Charing Cross. Do you see?"
_Romeo._ Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Curtens_;" and then follows the scene with Peter and the Musicians. The
_grey_ in the other, when the former word would suit the verse equally
The maiden cut a bit off her heel, forced her foot into the shoe,
"That is the truth."
happily together all their lives.
and she pulled out one which was woven of bright-colored silk.
sugar.
_Capulet._                        O, God ye god-den!
The children, who saw from a distance that some one was approaching,
But Two-Eyes thought, "I must instantly make a trial, and see if what
in which sat the King. The carriage stopped, and the King asked, "My
possession," As he spoke in this way the good Dwarfs took pity upon
173-178. _O brawling love!_ etc. Cf. iii. 2. 73 fol. below.
herself on her plough-wheel, and rolled over them. At last she arrived
O' Thursday let it be; o' Thursday, tell her,
"_If thy Mother only knew,
The youth sat down in the garden and considered how he might perform
same moment by a lucky chance the moon broke through the clouds.
He thought for a few minutes.
drybeat you with an iron wit, and put up my iron
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee.
Brags of his substance, not of ornament.                          31
"I have not heard of any."
Then the old one bleated, and went on her way with an easy mind.
she once more said, "What shall I do? Shall I shear first, or shall I
and Apollo vote for black:--
"run-aways." Those who retain this as a possessive singular refer it
been a very lonely man with only her as a companion, so that the
Part for a while, you shall not be alone
Merely this and nothing more.
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
long as she herself was not the fairest in the whole land, envy let her
unimpeded, he passed within a yard of the prince's person; and, while
_Enter_ FRIAR LAURENCE _and_ PARIS
TRAGEDY OF
_Juliet._ What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
Juliet in the silence and solitude of her chamber. She is thinking
race who were forced to accept that which none other would
_Romeo._ Then plainly know, my heart's dear love is set
my heart bubbling over with thankfulness and joy.
brain could anything more savage, more appalling, more hellish be
Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
Her sisters and the mother, however, did not know her, and thought she
exposed you to this fright. I was prepared for a hound, but not
her. He would dance with no other maiden, and never let go of her hand.
Culling of simples. Meagre were his looks,                      40
for the conveyance of letters.  These coaches travel at the rate of eight
"I think that on the whole you have had a fortunate escape," said
_Lady Capulet._                  O woful time!
fills a space enclosed by the four streets, Bartholomew Lane, Lothbury,
servant who gave them to him may get into trouble with the
But, O, it presses to my memory,                                 110
Then the shoemaker said to him, "I will give you a bit of bread to-day,
"Take this boot. It has a hole in the sole of it. Go with it upstairs
Zachiel. If the moon shines on the cage, Zachiel, let him loose at
21.  The Brewer's Dray.
of it rippled a clear brook on which the sun sparkled, and the white
goose?
front door. What do you think of that? We'll teach these magnates
different colours, assemble in St. Paul's Cathedral, on benches raised to
126. _So ho!_ The cry of the sportsmen when they find a hare. Hence
portion of the last and the eleventh; there remained but a single stone
her Grandmother, and set out on the way to her.
but the children went on eating without disturbing themselves. Haensel,
My soul shall keep thine company to heaven;
commercial convenience which has ever been formed under any government.
where the Princess says: "Whip to our tents, as roes run over land;" and
Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
County Fire Office.  The Building is surmounted by a colossal statue of
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
I would not for the wealth of all the town
that the gold was not seen, and rode fearlessly into the forest. When
[Picture: The taking of Guy Fawkes]
"Enlarge'd by its new sympathy with one,
House-surgeon, from 1882 to 1884, at Charing Cross Hospital.
policeman or a clergyman."
of age strengthened by the feelings of a long-trusted servant, whose
137. _Doom thee death._ Cf. _Rich. III._ ii. 1. 102: "to doom my
it, it gleamed like a hundred thousand carbuncles. The tailor tied his
Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books,
He rode on, and after a while it seemed to him that he heard a voice in
said, "Strew some white meal over my feet for me." The miller thought
the King's Son had ridden away again.
how to get down. Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you
20. _That may be must be._ That _may be_ of yours must be.
lengthening occurs most frequently at the end of the line.
Then the girl took the dish to the mother, and was glad, and believed
you were never coming back at all!"
Shalt with him hence.
When she saw that they were not going to give her anything, she went
"Gum," said Holmes.
blue eyes; but the "azure _lac'd_" ought to settle the question in
bundle. Every day, and sometimes twice a day, I have been
occupying an immense space of ground.  The dimensions of it are upwards
stimulating than a case where everything goes against you. We
are our dear little mother."
ABBREVIATIONS IN THE NOTES.--The abbreviations of the names of
heard how the maiden spoke to the head of Falada. Then he went into the
more years old (as we may infer from what he says in i. 5. 29 fol.),
Only be at hand immediately, if I summon you."
leather inside.
But let them measure us by what they will,
That with their emptyed teares, theyr choler and theyr rage
hurried out of his chamber and ordered them to set the maiden free.
across the moor, there being three leagues betwixt the Hall
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
made to give publicity to his methods. I was proud, too, to think
_Lady Capulet._ A fortnight and odd days.
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
drink as you can, I don't choose to be your maid."
so I held it within a few inches of my eyes, and was conscious of
225. _Here._ Not referring to Verona, but = "in this world" (Johnson).
When they were sitting at dinner, and had eaten, the mother said,
rolled to the shore, and bore the comb away with it.
else in this message, Mr. Holmes?"
Taught by many a knock and bruise,
"A man's or a woman's?"
could not follow her. The King's Son, however, had caused the whole
and as red as blood, and her hair was as black as ebony. She was
about to make our final effort, and yet Holmes had said nothing,
peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog. From the
Ne yet to speake, but long is forsd his teares and plaint to kepe.'"
"Thus weary of the world, away she hies,
perished in the heat, he had the doors opened to behold them himself.
Next morning, when the Princess arose, she went to her father, and told
roused them, they saw a beautiful Child in a shining white dress
employ my time better."
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
Or I shall burn. I am well baked!_"
America, establish his identity before the British authorities
negation was so strong in the poet's mind that he expressed it in more
This night you shall behold him at our feast;
This struck the host as odd, and he thought that a man who was forced
73. _Sighs._ Compared to vapours which the _sun_ dispels.
upon the right, and the jagged pinnacle of a granite tor stood up
_Peter._ I will then give it you soundly.
the morning, many streets are watered by means of a scoop, and water pent
"Except me," screamed the little fellow without a name, who had crept
not give each other up, and Maid Maleen said to her father, "I can and
_Mercutio._                      Why, may one ask?
and he hoped, no doubt, that when the whole countryside put down
The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law;
audience of Shakespeare's time, though perhaps it would not be endured
not overlook the exquisite reference to Juliet's lips, that--
When they reached the stairs, the soldier ran on in front and lay down
to any morning song, and especially one to a new-married woman. Cotgrave
[Illustration: THE LITTLE KIDS CRIED, "FIRST SHOW US YOUR PAWS"]
sentence. Thus shall it be done unto you."
But the third said, "Would that be worth your while? Let him live, he
polished.
My previous letters and telegrams have kept you pretty well up to
"To a collector of fairy tales."
Therefore, have done. Some grief shows much of love,
18. _Capel's._ The early eds. have "_Capels_"; the modern ones generally
Or by his name in paper sent, appoynted as a geast."
and patient who lay before him--it was explained that that
incessantly from the girl to me.
Black's _Judith Shakespeare_ (1884; a novel, but a careful study of the
"If you will do this I think the chances are that our little
and his eyes red.
at length he found them, they mocked him for thinking that he with his
her some of the rampion yourself, let it cost you what it will!"
with such a charming mixture of conscious delicacy and girlish
Grethel presents Hans with a young goat.
_Romeo._ I dreamt a dream to-night.
syllables; like v. 3. 256 below. See p. 158 above.
"Alas, you cannot help me."
SCENE III.--1. _Grey-eyed._ Delius says that _grey_ here and in _Much
the woman in amazement. Was it possible that this stolidly
carried her back to the royal Palace, and laid her in her bed.
them. They are fanciful or humorous. They have the quality, rare in
alone."
you have promised, the executioner shall in that very place make you
"Where can she be, then, since there is no light in any other
_Romeo._ I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
body of Sir Charles, and we had only his word for all the
Then said Lina, "Bird-Found, never leave me, and I will never leave
with pure scoff." See also iv. 5. 120 below. S. uses the word only three
6. _Crow-keeper._ Originally a boy stationed in a field to drive the
for many ages.
An expression of irresolution passed for an instant over her
lives from being monotonous and gives a little comic relief where
"It is you," said the old King, "and you have pronounced your own
I meekly answered that I had spoken without knowing all the
The hedge's shady gloom.
"I see that this will not do," said the man; "you had better spin;
The inside of the Exchange affords a busy scene: Englishmen, Dutchmen,
its decorations of any royal residence in Europe.
original tale is one of the most truthful and touching among the few
beer, then the pickaxe will fall on his head and kill him." Then she
a little window. When the Witch wanted to go in, she placed herself
"What did Grethel give you?"
Lark."
wire at Baker Street before evening. And now, Watson, it only
Along this meadow she went, and at length came to a baker's oven full
When the Dwarfs heard what had happened, they said, "The old
oppression, have too often befallen the harmless natives.  The India
me bitterly for having on any pretext allowed him to go out of my
"He is an ignoramus," interrupted my friend, as he stepped unsteadily
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet,
falling like feathers from the sky, a Queen sat at a window sewing, and
about to run away.
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
took him by the sleeve, but was also held fast.
the water."
little lads, who prefer doing even a dirty job to being idle, put down a
and no movement. One great grey bird, a gull or curlew, soared
Importing health and graveness."
different colors, and who caught the three Golden Apples?" asked the
thought he. "The sack must be filled with nothing but jewels. I ought
feeling. Juliet makes a feint of parrying Romeo's advances, but does it
_1 Musician._ Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
Author: William Darton
beauty of the ladies or the generosity of the entertainer; and to the
had almost for the second time given it up in despair when in an
Who drinks of me, a Roebuck be!_"
title-page; but its tone and spirit are strangely unlike those of the
beautifully ornamented.  The furniture of the horses is of velvet, laced
Little is known of the life of Arthur Broke, or Brooke, except that he
Sir Charles was the elder. The second brother, who died young, is
A fair assembly; whither should they come?
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
she fastened a little jar, in which she took home her share of the
"Took nothing, she gave me something."
181. _Stuff'd_, etc. Cf. _Much Ado_, i. 1. 56: "stuffed with all
hall, began to go to sleep, and the whole of the Court with them. The
Or I shall burn. I am well baked!_"
Your lady's love against some other maid
has wept on your account. They are precious pearls, finer than those
doom her death." _Amazed_ = bewildered, stupefied; as often.
corners of the house and rolled slowly into one dense bank on
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have cast friendly eyes on her."
near such fast-sailing boats in a loaded wherry; and, as it is much the
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
No answer still.  I thrust a torch through the remaining aperture and
Swiftly he sprang toward her, touched the cage with the flower, and
might against the wall.
second was full too. And so it went on till the morning, when all the
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
little sister and said, "Just wait, Grethel, until the moon rises, and
"Yes," said the woman, "now I am King."
45. _Detestable._ See on iv. 5. 52 above.
10. _Doggerel_ measure is used in the very earliest comedies (_L. L. L._
THE IRON STOVE                                                   291
I."
lying in bed while every body else is about his business, and idling
streets with the rapidity of lightning," said she, "and taken into a
The play, like _The Merchant of Venice_, is thoroughly Italian in
We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
"The blinds are up. You know the lie of the land best. Creep
dwelt her godmother, who supported herself by spinning, weaving, and
aloud, "The Wolf is dead! The Wolf is dead!" and danced for joy round
_Enter_ BENVOLIO _and_ MERCUTIO
The wicked beast answered:
imagine that such a match would be very welcome to Stapleton, and
Let me be satisfied, is 't good or bad?
[_Exit Romeo._
"You'll be all right tomorrow."
cloud wall of it. The thing that the day breaks up is partly a garment
land, he could no longer procure daily bread.
the frame of the window was made of black ebony.
86. _Presence._ Presence-chamber, state apartment; as in _Rich. II._ i.
There was also a variety known as the _bittersweet_. Cf. _Fair Em_: "And
information on mythological allusions not explained in the notes).
on his way.
foggy night, on either side of a blazing fire in our sitting-room
With a heavy heart the youth set out. Yet luckily for him he soon found
it."
imagination, but we have always some material basis on which to
"Ah! you wicked Child!" cried the Witch. "What do I hear you say!
not deserve that I should take any trouble about you. Nevertheless, go
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,                           60
said, "You can be none other than my dear wife."
are floundering. We know now why Stapleton looked with disfavour
remarks: "It was the custom of our ancient theatre to introduce, in the
Page to Paris; another Page; an Officer.
mountain, and the beautiful little Snow-White within it, and read what
cunning shall prevail?"
honourable virtues," etc. For _parts_, cf. iii. 3. 2 above.
And Tybalt's dead that would have slain my husband.
moment the great fear gets the better of her great love, and all seems
VI._ iii. 2. 310: "Would curses kill, as doth the mandrake's groans,"
them. And one day, when the King had ridden forth to hunt, she took the
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
Some of the above books will be useful to all readers who are interested
Paris is coldly acquiescent:--
much as I outpaced the little professional. In front of us as we
54. _Below._ From 1st quarto; the other early eds. have "so lowe," which
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
The King's Son wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the door of
I stooped under the rude lintel, and there he sat upon a stone
come inside, look. Now isn't this a great deal better?"
hundred and forty-five feet in length, and is thought to exceed every
and spends the heavy hours till her husband arrives in its
shorter than the last.
the moor. If that were so, and it seems most probable, only a man
104. _Fights by the book of arithmetic_. Cf. ii. 4. 22 above: "keeps
acting through a human agent we could get some evidence, but if
_Juliet._ Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
_Household Stories_, illustrated by Wehnert, first published in London,
filled the whole air, and yet it was impossible to say whence it
the spell at the right time."
SCENE II.--4. _A barefoot brother._ Friars Laurence and John are
12. _Desperate._ Overbold, venturesome.
4. 468: "and now I remember me, his name is Falstaff," etc.
pages of fine print in Furness, to which I must refer the curious
magnificent gates and hundred towers. The golden balls and crosses
2:--
How is 't, my soul? let's talk, it is not day.
the tree to get a little wood for cooking. The little bit of food that
65. _Down._ Lying down, abed (Dowden).
102. _Dump._ A mournful or plaintive song or melody. Calling it _merry_
in. The place was empty.
aloud; it is the young heart 'triumphing to itself in words.' In the
V._ iii. 1. 153, _Rich. II._ iii. 3. 178, and _3 Hen. VI._ i. 4. 33, ii.
'Tis since the nuptial of Lucentio,
He had never said as much before, and I must admit that his words
thou hast worn out thy pump, that when the single
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
"But what is it that alarms you?"
That sees into the bottom of my grief?
great glass of red wine shone so that it made the heart glad.
the road is stopped, by their being at work on the stones.  And hard work
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
After Hans had gone away, she cooked herself some good broth, and took
dishes empty and nothing on the fourth is a bad dinner!" He dragged
also, that her future child was to be killed by the pickaxe, when it
"_How fares my child, how fares my Roe?
"What do you see, my Grey-Horse?" asked the Cock.
is someone who has the facts if we can only find her. What do you
over the grave, and when the spring-sun had drawn it off again, the man
sitting upon the gate, crowing with all his might.
mysteries. I am certainly developing the wisdom of the serpent,
parts."
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase:
A certain man had a Donkey, which had carried the corn-sacks to the
puritanical. You could hardly conceive a less emotional subject.
here which may be the residence of the naturalist--Stapleton, if I
ride, but spoils the look of many a joint of meat.  Pastry-cooks' and
love that is making her a woman. Hence the absolute frankness in her
a comparatively short period his amiability of character and
_Kinder und Hausmarchen_, following the last edition authorized by
England_: "so exquisite that for shape he must be framed in wax," and
by their nest, and throwing out their young ones. "Out with you, you
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
beast. In every way it corresponded with the scene of the old
She took the bread-knife, and picked and bored at the mortar of a
me end on that which is most important and tell you more about
King from the cottage.
6(12); iii. 1(36), 3(71), 5(24); v. 1(71), 3(82). Whole no. 618.
love Rosaline bears you," weighed against that of some possible _maid_.
In mortal paradise of such sweet flesh?
Digging at their work forlorn;
_Wit in a Constable_, 1639: "and an alderman as I may say to you, he has
Then the blower came down and went with him.
upon the edge of the well without foreboding any evil. But the two
_Lady Capulet._ Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word;
LITTLE BRIAR-ROSE                                                176
When the seven Kids saw that, they came running to the spot and cried
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have carried the bacon on your
Farewell, my lord.--Light to my chamber, ho!
in York four years ago. It is indorsed 'Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur,'
Henry IV., with the Duke of Chevreuse, as proxy for Charles I. of
Daughter? You weep so that even a stone would show pity."
account she always looked dusty and dirty, they called her Ash-Maiden.
errors." It is from this edition that the text of the first folio is
_v_. Morland, Court of Queen's Bench. It cost me PS200, but I got
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.                      20
I hastened to make an end of my labour.  I forced the last stone into
The little girl took the Pot home to her mother. And now they were
[_Falls on Romeo's body, and dies._
with diamonds and carbuncles. In one hand she had the sceptre, and in
eat to your heart's content," said he to her, and let her browse till
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.
three of his companions, as wicked as himself, and having knocked down
_OR_
fullest possible manner to me, and you can leave me to do the
756, col. 2): 'You see further, how a company of traitors, thieves,
Directly after it, a jet of water rose as high as a man on horseback,
stage directions, which are more complete, than in the quarto.
show us our way home again."
pond, crying, "Cheating, cheating!"
sight. I imagined what my feelings would be if I had to return to
hut on the edge of a lonely wood. One morning as he was about to go to
now we only want our man.
"What have you got in your apron?"
to-day. I shall have to row with all my strength, if I am to get it
"but at least it is not difficult to find out a few particulars
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
city of London.
her into the corner, towards which she has been contriving to be driven,
pulled her scissors out of her pocket, and cut off the end of the beard.
self-control and self-restraint of Romeo, in spite of the insults of
follow straight.
Being the time the potion's force should cease.
And smil'st upon the stroke that murthers me.
a festival, that hath new robes and may not wear them.' It is at the
tell them what I had seen.
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
do not know," etc. So _sadly_ just below = seriously, as in _Much Ado_,
offers almost as many difficulties as the other. And always,
For the most part their enthusiasm is adopted to suit the time and
we see her, on the one hand, kept in severe subjection by her austere
Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive,
2 _Servingman._ We cannot be here and there too.--Cheerly, boys; be
10.  A battle-axe.
singular prose introduction to the 1562 edition of _Romeus and Juliet_.
trouble. I beg you, sir, to say nothing to the police."
heard how it said as it ran:
But while the second quarto is "unquestionably our best authority" for
was all of no use. The poor child was dead, and remained dead. They
And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--
I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault                       20
hair fell twenty ells down, and the Witch climbed up by it.
was well bribed to help him in his design. By chance, however,
fan's the fairer of the two.
on the Griffin which bore them across the Red Sea. When they were in
And found no leaves, so went without,
she undid the cloth, it was empty, and she had lost the good Star's
47. _Mandrakes'._ The plant _Atropa mandragora_ (cf. _Oth._ iii. 3. 130
ten sacks standing side by side, quite full, and not a single grain
fellow, that I am very much in your debt."
cover to eat of it, until he was quite alone.
his way.
"Have you been on the moor already?"
which were on the spires began to shine. He could distinguish every
Those upstairs waited for the drink, but Clever Elsie still did not
He quickened his pace until we had decreased the distance which
home? I will go forth and see the world."
the facts, it all appeared exceedingly complex. I have had the
mouths. Rather than that, you shall be my guests."
Baskerville. One was Theophilus Johnson and family, of Newcastle;
But when he got into the cellar, and they were all sitting together
I tell you. You can tell your friends that we should have been
Then the wedding was celebrated on the self-same day, and the kingdom
"Your hat and boots, Watson, quick! Not a moment to lose!" He
99. _Lady's love._ Some substitute "lady-love," which S. does not use
goes, was so crazed with fear that he could scarce speak,
She inquired of the gardener where his boy was, but he smiled, and
present in return for your kindness. Go on your way now, but in a
went back into the forest, and it was not long before a stable-boy
today for the first time that I saw a chance of having a few
The plant was of repute also in medicine, as a soporific (see the
"I talked as if Dr. Watson were a resident instead of being
informing him of his good fortune."
Then said the boy, "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down by her,
Set thyself!_"
him--"who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery? Seize him and
No knight or gentleman of high or lowe renowne:
venture to get into any of them, but crept under one, and lay down
I'll be a candle-holder and look on.
But old folks, many feign as they were dead,
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
extraordinarily difficult case."
"Well! Am I right?"
the rounded head of the Celt, which carries inside it the Celtic
the message, and addressing the letter in a disguised hand. It
help you out of your difficulty. For a long time past, I have carried
Live here in heaven and may look on her,
the King and said, "Lord King, the tailor is an arrogant fellow and has
Montagues than with the Capulets.
forest. When darkness came on, he saw a light, which he went toward,
have your pack on your back. Why are you leaving the town?"
We took this mattock and this spade from him,
As were his handes, though nere so neer the fire he dyd them holde."
he wanted. "I have three unmanageable beasts," answered he, "which I
"Did you correspond with Sir Charles?"
more wonderful instance of Shakespeare's mastery in playing a distinctly
Made me put this main secret in the packet
Either be gone before the watch be set,
"Very good," said she, "if I am not to know anything, then I do not
To keep them clear and well.
70. _Many's._ Cf. _Sonn._ 93. 7: "In many's looks," etc.
fifteen, as she has been "twelve year" on the enchanted island and was
the pond, and a mighty wave rushed up, and bore the wheel away with it.
"Be it so," I said, replacing the tool beneath the cloak and again
please her better."
jumped up and wagged their tails. The pigeons upon the roof pulled
When the day came, the youth galloped to the spot, took his place
across the moor. "What a nerve the fellow has! How he pulled
"Certainly, sir," said he, "I had the telegram delivered to Mr.
and immediately the beast began to let gold pieces fall, so that it
The next day when it began to grow dark, he went to the tower and cried:
the door.
"Go to her then," said the Flounder; "she is Pope already."
term of endearment; but, recollecting its application to a woman of
So far as I am aware, no editor or commentator has referred to the
beg you, Watson. He is a professional brother of yours, and your
do not enter it. Go rather into the other, even though it seems a bad
"And lying on her funeral couch,
Hans comes to Grethel. "Good day, Grethel."
before sunrise. Whether ascribed, as here, to the eyes of the Morn, or,
dangerous man than he who is lying yonder"--he swept his long arm
THE BREMEN TOWN-MUSICIANS                                        122
well rounded and complete, I have thrown away the life of my
brought me an apple from the Tree of Life."
Meanwhile, the Wolf ran straight to the Grandmother's house and knocked
bring out the Golden Bird for you."
27.  Drawing Goods in a Truck.
grumbled at her and said, "A Queen! that ought to have been my luck."
one of them suddenly drooped. "Alas!" said he, "my brother has met with
few days.
"That is true."
Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.
trades well. The blacksmith had to shoe the King's horses, and he
The seventh, "Who has been drinking out of my mug?"
that believe no future" (Coleridge).
The next morning, when he awoke and looked out of the window, the hill
"What force the stones, the plants, and metals haue to woorke,
old men; they have an eagerness, a heartiness, a vehemence, the effect
front was draped in ivy, with a patch clipped bare here and there
Frog was once on the chair, he wanted to be on the table, and when he
_Nurse._ I know not.
breaks out, breaks in, as from heaven to earth, with a breach in the
_Prince._ What misadventure is so early up
into a sound sleep, he opened a trap-door, and let her down into the
[_Undraws the curtains._
few minutes we were flying swiftly down the broad, white road.
Then she told the King the evil deed which the wicked Witch and her
To see on me, then this which here is shewd forth to thee now?
(Steevens). Cf. Drayton, _Polyolbion_: "But hunts-up to the morn the
2(17), 3(75). Whole no. 350.
am none of his skains-mates.--And thou must stand
See also _W.T._ v. 2. 60.
_Nurse._ Even or odd, of all days in the year,
_October_ 17_th_.--All day today the rain poured down, rustling on
across. "To James Mortimer, M.R.C.S., from his friends of the
Although, as I have said, it is doubtful whether the story has any
See also _2 Hen. VI._ iii. 2. 327. In these passages the modern eds.
she lived.
Charles Baskerville, whose sudden and tragic death some three
having nine lives hath cost at least nine lives in ten of the whole race
THE SPINDLE, THE SHUTTLE, AND THE NEEDLE                         267
And none is so fair as she._"
When he awoke in the morning, all twelve had been to the dance, for
worst impression upon his mind. I stayed with him all the
And on the third evening, when she had washed up, she opened the third
each strove to be the first to fill the jug, it fell into the spring.
us. It is that he should strike before we are ready to do so.
Then two white pigeons came in by the kitchen-window, and afterward the
the "stately tombe, on pillers great," etc., was doubtless suggested by
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,                          90
The lady looked quickly up with an angry gleam in her hazel eyes.
sound'?--What say you, Simon Catling?
caught him up, carried him away, and traveled about for a long time
The maid went and found her sitting in front of the barrel, screaming
forward in the grass. But they could not make out what it was.
What hundreds of coaches, and thousands of folk!
Thou hast had kind thought for all of us,
boiled meats and roasted meats, as many as there was room for, and a
was under the cover. The doctor looked at the dish, had no idea what
_Nurse._ [_Within_] Madam!
conceive?
Out of the tombe both he and I will take thee forth that night."
think that she had now power over the Bride, for since the Princess had
track. We left her standing upon the thin peninsula of firm,
to look."
you will find a gold piece under your pillow."
towards us formed a dark cliff, with ferns and brambles growing
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
a great height one above the other, circularly, under the dome.  The
"You may be sure, sir, that I have very good grounds before I
critics suppose to have been the one felt in England in 1580.
hound upon the track. He fled when he knew the game was up, still
adventure. Throwing aside my cigarette, I closed my hand upon the
and put him in a corner. But when she was in bed, he crept to her and
Another Adventure of Sherlock Holmes
"_Duks_," said they. Then the girl went to the stove where the animals
"_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, I pray,
(_Purgat._ xxxi. 116). Lami says in his _Annotazioni_, 'Erano i suoi
you properly for once."
passages in i. 2, i. 5, and v. 3.
and what is this conspiracy that is going on?"
and yet we were helped through it by the same sort of patient
98. _My conceal'd lady._ Not known to the world as my wife. _Conceal'd_
"A large-scale map, I presume?"
continued.
until she dropped down dead.
her. When Dunderhead heard this, he went with his Goose and all her
passage, but the soldier did not forget to take the Blue Light with
his epigrams:--
dramatic interest, and were there not shown in the progress of the
cock, to the second a scythe, and to the third a cat.
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,
Go in, and tell my lady I am gone,
and _V. and A._ 1190:--
his head hanging, the very picture of dejection.
In the evening he recurred to the subject of his own accord.
The little sister said, "Oh, I pray you, dear little Brother, do not
the loss of their seven sons, yet they comforted themselves somewhat
hand towards the line of portraits which covered the opposite
One-Eye sat down, and was tired with the unaccustomed walk and the heat
Conrad ran and tried to clutch it, so she said in haste:
country lass.
And that we have a curse in having her;
that the old Donkey which had received three beatings and only one
events."
Said the wife, "But I have got nothing and don't know where to find
_Benvolio._ I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire.
distant from each other about two feet, horizontally.  From one of
expression is peculiar, and may be corrupt. "Push'd" and "brush'd" have
"It is a great day for me, sir--one of the red-letter days of my
well appointed. A maid showed me in without ceremony, and as I
make. They cut the Apple of Life in two and ate it together; and then
freshness about you, Watson, which makes it a pleasure to
indefinite time. At the present instant one of the most revered
it stirred my heart! You must tell me how you came by that pearl."
in special subjects or in general criticism of Shakespeare. Among those
Nor the ploughman's cheery song.
Cf. _Hen. VIII._ i. 4. 71:--
-_th_. He adds that S. mostly uses it only where it has the force of
Shakespeare; like _aspect_, _importune_ (see on i. 1. 142), _persever_
been reduced to a science, and its laws laid down in books. The _causes_
foolish old fellow, that a beggar's life must at least be an easy one;
"Why should I stay here alone?"
"Just a suggestion, perhaps. But wait an instant!" He stood upon
_Romeo._ [_Aside_] Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
going within reach of the paws of the lion, she bear, or tiger.
lived in content until their death.
granite foaming up into fantastic surges. "You never tire of the
Until I've braided all my hair,
silver, which the common people call slips." There is also a play upon
Yes, he was, he said.
see on i. 2. 57 above.
In the daytime, she changed herself into a cat or a screech-owl, but
1875); Wordsworth's Shakespeare's _Knowledge of the Bible_ (3d ed.
She again said:
"It is as safe as if you had it already," said Iron John. "You shall
are withered, we are ill. If they perish, then we are dead."
again.
crumbled his in his pocket, and often stood still and threw a morsel on
though not as enemies:--
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death;
long time, their eyes shut with fatigue, and they fell fast asleep.
"take your sweet-heart's hat." Schmidt would print it as two words (as
lick his own fingers; therefore he that cannot lick his
maiden, and she took the spindle and wanted to spin too. But scarcely
Nevertheless he mounted it, and rode away to the dark forest. When he
neck, led her into the stable and tied her up securely.
clouds hung low over the landscape, trailing in grey wreaths down
colossal supports of the roof of the catacombs, and was backed by one
her amply for it. So that she was in want of nothing, and even had
excitement in front of the lovers. What the scene meant I could
I think so too, young gentleman: and mind how you go along the dark
over the whole palace.
The tragedy here ends in Booth's Acting Copy (Furness).
when he found that my friend had neither any luggage nor any
"_Alas! young Queen, how ill you fare!
I came to talk of.--Tell me, daughter Juliet,
still as he listened to his master's question.
again, I will once more give you the castle with the cupboard full of
_2 Musician._ Pray you, put up your dagger, and
"yon grey lines
Of perfit shapes renoune, and Beauties sounding prayse:
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!--
"Have you any better explanation?"
was complimented by the words of Holmes and by the eagerness with
and then a dull, heavy thud. We halted and listened. Not another
Shakespeare was never driven to disposing of a personage in that way,
he made two snips more, and the little girl sprang out, crying, "Ah,
What's in a name? That which we call a rose
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees;
ourselves in some business. Sir Charles's generosity has given us
_Juliet._ O, shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
only here.
become much larger, and had a great tower and magnificent ornaments.
must be of quite as early a date.
etc., 1596, refers to "an apothecary's crocodile or dried alligator."
And ere a man hath power to say 'Behold!'
jewel hung in ghastly night," etc. Holt White quotes Lyly, _Euphues_: "A
said angrily, "If you do not obey me, it shall cost you your life. I
"Three people did."
"No."
the character or occasion" (Schmidt); hence aptly, pertinently.
RAPUNZEL
is ready for him, and his light out yonder is to show the spot to
_K. John_, ii. 1. 75: "To do offence and scathe in Christendom;" _Rich.
I thought I had separated you from all the world, and yet you have
cracked, and that very moment the maiden slipped into the skin, sprang
him. Barrymore had returned from taking our luggage to our rooms.
what he had seen and heard. Then the King said, "To-morrow we will hunt
Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
and red-faced, outside the gate of his garden, which opened on to
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
to you, Dr. Mortimer, for introducing me to a problem which
one who looked at her, and most of all by her Grandmother. There was
trouble to tell it sooner rather than later. Come, now! No lies!
"Ah, unhappy girl that I am! If I had but taken King Thrushbeard!"
But the Wolf had laid his black paws against the window, and the
placed her by his side at table, and her modest bearing and courtesy
The puzzling prose preface to the poem is followed, in the original
O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spilt               150
horses, too, went to sleep in the stable, the dogs in the yard, the
In wonted weede attyrde, not wrapt in winding sheete."
The children, however, were sitting outside the forest, and when they
herself, "Oh dear! how uneasy I feel to-day, and at other times I like
merchant;" and Churchyard's _Chance_, 1580: "What saucie merchaunt
it might, I should at least have something to report to Sherlock
"for youth no less becomes
them about. They are still larger than lentils, and will show her the
King Henry the Sixth_, etc. _P.P._ refers to _The Passionate Pilgrim_;
The next morning, the King said to him, "Your life is forfeited, and
The King sent for the tailor and ordered him to copy in wax the whole
The next day, the hunt went on afresh, and when the Roe again heard the
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?--
To love's alarm it will not ope the gate."
edition of _Shakespeare_ in one compact volume), which is now generally
[Picture: The downed boy]
and others. It is the simplest possible solution, and is favoured by the
Baskerville Hall, Oct. 15th.
7 the same is true of the first syllable of _misadventur'd_ and the
"Driving back in the evening from Coombe Tracey he was in time to
longer."
the quarters of the hours, but otherwise a deathly silence lay
drunk, he took each of them to a bedroom.
58. _Yet not._ A common transposition. Cf. _Hen. V._ iii. 3. 46: "his
"he desires to make atonement
reading. Cf. "some hour" in 268 below.
calamity to have been a punishment on the city for the sin of gluttony;
"That is the reward of your service," said Mother Holle, and shut the
had happened, and said, "I love you more than everything in the world.
rid of my scythe as profitably." But it did not look as if he would,
a kiss. Then she will follow you, and you can take her away with you.
going about as servants. Then they opened the doors to him, which were
As, however, all grew quiet once more, and the girl was not hurt, she
One of our order, to associate me,
and _A. and C._ i. 5. 4, where it is called "mandragora"), the root of
have procured it, and the smell of it arose pleasantly to the noses of
everything that is needful, all of silver, with these build me a small
him the first day I argued that they would follow him also the
the dial is now upon the prick of noon.
know not how it fares with you?"
sound of boots upon gravel. The steps passed along the path on
woman. There is something tropical and exotic about her which
_Capulet._ Ha! let me see her. Out, alas! she's cold;
[Illustration]
The little Kids cried, "First show us your paws that we may know if you
"I never saw a Devonshire man who did not swear by his county," I
house was left, the child came home and just said:
_Capulet._ God's bread! it makes me mad! Day, night, late, early,
89 above.
The night air was heavy with the smell of damp and decay. Now and
hope that to lose one of your boots is not part of the ordinary
"You have always kept together, I presume?"
that any one else should surpass her in beauty. She had a wonderful
three." But of these also, none came home again, and of the pack of
Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;                130
pale, and the more aged and sedate passed their hands over their brows
glad to turn to him. But that morning, as it chanced, there was
of the trees into the dark green of the forest, and the turtledoves
As he was about to enter it, the people said, "It is not safe for
with a knife, who stabbed me in the leg. In the yard there lies a black
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
would not endeavour to entangle the old gentleman in a
Is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd.--
Children! Your mother is here and has brought something back with her
the ground, and little by little, threw all the crumbs on the path.
being very great, to and from every nation, in time of peace, it must
said Holmes drily. "By the way, I don't suppose you appreciate
pathos of the scene. The same remark may be made with reference to the
Sherry from Amontillado."
house and make sure."
masterpiece, when you made that. It is a bad old table."
to the mother, "Now, I know why that proud thing there does not eat.
ever. Perhaps in my next I may be able to throw some light upon
good grains into the dish. Hardly had one hour passed before they had
or any interest in her welfare except to get her off their hands by
allusions to Diana's chastity, and also to her connection with the moon.
Sherlock Holmes struck his hand against his knee with an
And steep'd in blood?--Ah, what an unkind hour
stood a small cloth bundle--the same, no doubt, which I had seen
"Yes," said the Fish, "there is, however, the condition that you shall
"Who knew that you were going to the Northumberland Hotel?" asked
of your cart-horse, though I carry and draw water."
"It is very bewildering."
He turned into one of the district messenger offices, where he
"_Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
193. _Amerce._ Used by S. only here.
understood nowadays, even by readers quite familiar with the language of
"I have run all the way in order to cut you off, Dr. Watson,"
She went out and sought Maid Maleen. "Girl, what have you been saying
Man.
"'Remember whom you are to cope withall,
secretly suggested by the friar the afternoon before?
Thereupon the door opened, and the Princess stepped out in her silken
the last of the Baskervilles. In one hour and five minutes I meet
recital of these events must be very painful to you, and perhaps
As soon as the Dwarf had recovered from his first fright, he cried
17. _Butt-shaft._ A kind of arrow used for shooting at butts; formed
very next morning one was missing. This was told to the King, and he
Grethel emptied her pinafore until pearls and precious stones ran about
childhood, and also that happy, humble ducking under, yet constant
lonely householders of this district. A fortnight has passed
So fearful were they of infection.
row of candles, the largest of which was as tall as the very tallest
and was being led to prison, when the Queen opened her eyes, and
King."
thought to himself, "The house is mine, without doubt." The barber
collar, they all chased him, but he was too quick and nimble for
[Picture: Westminster Bridge]
21. _Presently._ Immediately; the usual meaning in S. Cf. iv. 1. 54 and
character.
She could not speak to any one, and she had no wish to laugh. She sat
cleaning out Sir Charles's study--it had never been touched since
It is the parents, not the children, that have sinned, and the sin of
it up, grumbling to himself, "Rude people, to cut off a piece of my
To and fro in the seven chambers there stalked, in fact, a multitude of
he would easily find the Golden Bird. When he had gone some distance he
him, when he is recovered from it, like a dream." It seems to me more
length some sense came back to their crazed minds, and the
153. _To-morrow._ "In the alternative which she places before her lover
at it in this light. On what occasion would it be most probable
On the morrow _he_ will leave me, as my Hopes have flown before."
satisfied for once?"
Sings sorrow, sor----jug, jug, jug!_"
as that note is concerned."
The King had him summoned into his presence. He came and again had his
the enemy, who was superior in strength and had a mighty army.
If any one met her, she greeted him quite courteously. "Good day, dear
Nurse. Farmer transferred it to the Friar, and is followed by most of
moorland farmer, who all tell the same story of this dreadful
The tailor wrapped it carefully in his cloth and took it to the King,
And Conrad said, "In the morning, when we pass beneath the dark gateway
but this being since considered a vulgar error, is not painted on the new
While I carry my shovel and broom.
Blue Light and the gold, and had only one ducat in his pocket. And now
Then the father said wrathfully, "A vagabond shall never have my
princes and dukes.
been suggested as emendations.
As I watched them Stapleton rose and left the room, while Sir
I tried one or two explanations, but, indeed, I was completely
43. _Hildings._ Base menials; used of both sexes. Cf. _T. of S._ ii. 1.
_The Renegado_, v. 5: "Upon those lips from which those sweet words
could scarcely keep his feet. Houses and trees toppled over, mountains
deep pool and could go no farther. Then a naked arm stretched itself
help us in putting a rope round the neck of its master."
more saucy with lords and honourable personages than the commission of
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
his beloved queen Eleanor, {65} which cross was destroyed by the fury of
picture galleries and fill in the time until we are due at the
second, and went to the King and said, "Lord King, the tailor has
meal daily to the old Donkey, and that was the Witch; one beating and
"Yes," answered he, "and here are the apples," and he took them out
Chapter 7  The Stapletons of Merripit House
This may flies do, when I from this must fly;
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
In carrion-flies than Romeo. They may seize
"For example?"
"'_Cudgel!
I have the time known,
_Tybalt._ What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
was. She remained with them while the wedding-feast lasted, and then
sound for silver.
Drawn with a team of little atomies
67. _Any he._ Cf. _A.Y.L._ iii. 2. 414: "that unfortunate he;" 3 _Hen.
_Friar Laurence._ This same should be the voice of Friar John.--
celebrate it in song.... Dante speaks of Beatrice's eyes as emeralds
The fellow looked at us in a helpless way, and he wrung his hands
counterfeit, with his sham make-up, pretending to be _purblind_ and yet
When the moon came, they set out, but they found no crumbs, for the
pry into the depth of the recess.  Its termination the feeble light did
Ere one can say it lightens. Sweet, good night!                  120
Call this a lightning?--O my love! my wife!
stone-work, and guarded by an iron bar and spikes, but still remains open
of night. But, dear me, what's this? Somebody hurt? Not--don't
Lane_, very near Fish-Street Hill, destroying all the buildings from
sunbeams, and spread about like a mantle over her whole form. Her eyes
And none is so fair as she._"
"the winds,
"My brother is very anxious to have the Hall inhabited, for he
I have taken off one of my legs, for if I run with both, I go quicker
"With Grethel."
There go the apprentice and beauish young spark,
how long it is to Lammas-tide--that is, to August 1--and the reply is,
Whilst every stroke his labouring lungs resound."
The parents could not recall the curse. And though they grieved over
catching a glimpse of the escaped convict. If he would confine
pushed about and dirtied.  The crowd is generally very great, and the
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
That I will show you shining at this feast,                      100
would be too inconceivable a thing."
"Yes, sir."
the good Jane Gray, who was shut up in it for five months.  She fell a
and ran away.
Baskerville, "someone cut out this message with a scissors--"
ropery?
pushed his spectacles up on his forehead and stared across at Mr.
"Here can you not abide," they said to her. "This is a shelter for
I'll know his grievance or be much denied.
laid her upon a bier, and all seven of them sat round it and wept for
voice that I glanced up in surprise.
As 'twere her nightly posture, through the crowd
then I will give you a horse more beautiful than any you have ever seen
The meaning of the passage is, "This knife shall decide the struggle
So they brought him; and he had to hold his little smock together to
slipped down into it, and cried out of it, with his small voice:
Barrymore whether he could account for our experience. It seemed
_Romeo._                         Is the day so young?
Very stealthily we heard it pass along until it died away in the
"It belongs to King Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would have
The so-called "tomb of Juliet" is in a less disagreeable locality, but
The maiden laughed, and said, "He does not stand much on ceremony, but
and motionless within the shadow of the ebony clock, gasped in
which were laid bars of iron, massy stones, faggots, &c.  Near these Guy
one could have delivered him from the fountain but herself, and that
When she had reached the summit, quite a different sight presented
a very common one.
three little Dwarfs. She wished them good day, and knocked modestly at
led her forth, lifted her on to his horse, and took her to the royal
interruption. He was running wildly towards them, his absurd net
youth and spring--youth with its follies, its virtues, its
_Juliet._ Farewell!--God knows when we shall meet again.
returned to England. What then? Was he the agent of others or had
129. _Hoar._ Often = mouldy, as things grow white from moulding
As if in answer to his words there rose suddenly out of the vast
Early in the morning, Grethel had to go out and hang up the cauldron,
greatly dreaded, which lay so heavily on my heart, has come upon him!"
House.
poisoned dagger.  It is affirmed that he owed his life to the affection
great mire, and my acquaintance never paused for an instant,
"With Grethel."
her Bridegroom.
said, "Just go home again. But come back to-morrow at this time, and
157. _Is the day so young?_ Is it not yet noon? _Good morrow_ or _good
make a Pope. Go to him directly. I am Emperor, and you are nothing but
his comrade. If a couple of pence jingled in his pockets, he ordered
"You may smoke three," answered the King, "but do not imagine that I
the courtyard, and how dainty and delicate and beautiful she was. He
"On observing the cab I should have instantly turned and walked
passage as noiselessly as I could and peeped round the corner of
"Selden told me of him, sir, a week ago or more. He's in hiding,
*       *       *       *       *
sleep in your little bed--if you will promise me this, I will go down
That would please her too. It is so early in the day that I shall still
_L. L. L._ v. 2. 158 fol.
(never _persevere_), _perseverance_, _rheumatic_, etc.
interview on the evening before his departure for London. He
each one prettier than the other, but he had no son.
_Temp._ only two, and in the _W.T._ none at all, except in the chorus
thunder, Watson, I am going out to take that man!"
For the first time, she succeeded well, for the people were glad to buy
way.
"Look you," said the Fox, "this has happened because you did not give
Then said he, "You are mine, and I am yours. You are my Bride, and have
The boy, who wanted to have his ball back, cast all thought to the
Next morning, the turner went home to his father with the
but you heard how earnestly Holmes insisted that I should not
and _whirr, whirr, whirr,_ three turns, and the reel was full. Then he
the water, in order to wash his blood-stained hands.
One day he came to a pond, where he saw three fishes caught in the
that, in this speech, Juliet is not supposed to be addressing an
until she could go no farther for weariness. Then she saw a forest-hut,
HOW SIX MEN GOT ON IN THE WORLD                                  232
_Balthasar._ I brought my master news of Juliet's death,
and soap, and lathered away until the hare came up. Then he soaped and
convinced that the business is supernatural."
Joringel could not move. He stood there like a stone, and could neither
always boded ill to somebody.
And, truly, there's one _bent upon it_, indeed.
act craftily, so as to catch both."
boy. "He is at work in the garden. The queer creature has been at the
first, through the blue chamber to the purple--through the purple to
words.
Baskerville what were his intentions.
I don't see that I am much of a gentleman for it.'  So I bought this
So that among the monumentes that in Verona been,
whole, I prefer this explanation.
one as Sir Henry. And now I pass on to another thread which I
heard.
At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man, such as her eyes
The agony of those contorted limbs struck me with a spasm of pain
of conjugal kisses.
not refuse to help him. When he dragged himself here one night,
In the evening he went into the nursery, and at midnight the Queen
Among the high tides in the calendar?"
thin dress?"
fourteen, because of her Italian birth; but in the original Italian
"I have come prepared to do so," said Holmes, drawing several
were swimming round about and had put their beaks under it, and were
"I will do so, Mr. Holmes." He scribbled the appointment on his
iii. 2. 245: "to count atomies;" and _Id._ iii. 5. 13: "Who shut their
made to arrest him.  It was then, however, that the Prince Prospero,
occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was
him, when I saw his eyes fix themselves over my shoulder and
my spirit has hovered over it all day. I flatter myself that I
"No, sir. No more than you have. But I expect if we could lay our
The date of the first draft of the play has been much discussed, but
of it for you and the babes (at least the female part of them), and for
76. _Sweetmeats._ That is, kissing-comfits. These artificial aids to
running up, and they cried out with astonishment, and brought their
if it were made of gold.  The watermen are always waiting about the
below.
No sooner had it touched his tongue than he heard a strange whispering
When the maiden, who was standing behind the door watching, heard that
the tree, he saw a Singing, Soaring Lark.
fine things that she has promised me, if all does but come true!"
If I climb for them, the bough will break beneath me, and I shall fall."
waddling about all the morning, and what good food they had found. And
behind the peaceful and sunlit countryside there rose ever, dark
yours. I will not tell."
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
remained as dry as if he were sitting in a house.
into the open country.
the road and wound away across the moor. A steep,
say "crack a bottle."
frost that all heat disappeared, and the food on the dishes began to
in good earnest, and so God mend me, and by all pretty oaths that are
And take the table quite away!_"
also the Old Woman.
the--"
"Gave me a knife."
them behind alone.
"How have you come to our house?" said the Dwarfs.
SCENE III. _A Room in Capulet's House_
_Gregory._ To move is to stir, and to be valiant is
I, to mark the pathway through the mire. Oh, if I could only have
But to rejoice in splendour of mine own.
returning from the outer gate, he is challenged by the guard, drawn up
path zigzagged from tuft to tuft of rushes among those
that I should have expected to see out on the moor at this time
send for me if I can be of service."
Watson, and both in my favour. I haven't had such a day since I
and the Nurse he has given her, she could only have been, at the opening
which are better suited to the needs of ordinary readers and students,
Then the ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
for it, but he had to drown miserably!
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
And I am proof against their enmity.
Tower Wharf in the east, to Temple church in the west; and from the north
long vowel or diphthong, are often made dissyllables; as _fare_, _fear_,
In stately tombe, on pillers great of marble, rayse they hye.
yourself, and lie down and drink out of the water. I don't choose to be
_Romeo._ I warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.
Chapter 9.
fantastic landscape in a dream. Baskerville sat for a long time,
Frauncis order was, a fryer as I reede. Not as the most was he, a grosse
27. _Passado._ "A motion forwards and thrust in fencing" (Schmidt). Cf.
with that excellent woman, Queen Mary, the wife of King William the
dog-cart, and he gave me a lift homeward. I found him much
sewing at the shirts, and cared for nothing else.
84.  The Fire-plug.
'Then music with her silver sound
going round the ward by night to ring his bell, and to exhort the
rascal out if she had any value for her life. When evening was come all
from which flames of fire were darting.
5.  The golden orb, which is put into the king's right hand before he is
The wife did as the old woman told her. No sooner was the flute lying
House," said he. "Perhaps you will spare an hour that I may have
Who here hath lain these two days buried.--
"Amontillado!"
[Illustration]
(Wright's translation.)
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanc'd;
the voyage home, and that he had used this man's ability to make
very difficult, and that there was nothing more which I could do.
"At the end of the week."
181. _Plucks it back._ Cf. Sonn. 126. 6: "As thou goest onwards, still
[Picture: The Guildhall]
one. But I think that we shall succeed in establishing a
"As carefull was the mayde what way were best deuise
painters, but some very neat and fine garments have been made with its
"What did Grethel give you?"
"Alas," said the man, "she wants to be King."
which came up to her from below, for they say that the
furnish him a room as magnificent as possible.
By having him making yourself no less.
no more than this when you first spoke to me, why should you not
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
There's great St. Paul's, so wondrous wide,
so I got away as well as I could."
gives point to the humorous effect of Mercutio's lecturing Benvolio--the
Little Hans, with your coat so gay,
"And yet some fools will have it that his taste is a match for your
Which has been pulled down since our plate was engraved, was a very grand
hope.
with narrow sidewalks or none at all. To _give the wall_ was an act of
Husband, now I may speak and declare to you that I am innocent, and
With that she gave him a little cloak, and said, "If you put on that,
John returned to Laurence's cell; so that, even if he had not been
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
were pasted, holding it only an inch or two from his eyes.
she pricked her finger with it.
"What's to be the end of this?" said the tailor to himself at last; "my
dump, to comfort me.
blacksmith, the second a barber, and the third a fencing-master. They
loudly and swam to him with open beak, and begged him urgently to spare
long as there are none of the family at the Hall these people
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
What are you doing here,
I hesitated but could not escape the question.
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
