Blind is his love and best befits the dark.                       30
"Give me a telegraph form. 'Is all ready for Sir Henry?' That
her mother could not endure her. They said to her, "You, with your two
"It seems to leave the darkness rather blacker than before."
tiny point of yellow light.
For you and I are past our dancing days.
not let you out."
died?"
"Then we shall do it together."
take the Wishing-Cloak away from him."
_Mercutio._ Thou art like one of those fellows that
How distressed his poor brother looks! and how anxious to see whether
event, for station-master and porters clustered round us to carry
in Elizabethan writers. Cf. _A.W._ ii. 3. 315: "A young man married is a
was still there by putting a light in the window, and if there
Our instruments to melancholy bells,
_Nurse._ An honour! were not I thine only nurse,
to the next spring, but then I must drink, say what you like; for my
but the King had not much trust in him, and thought that he would be of
Then the Queen of the Bees, which Simpleton had protected from the
of smoke which marked the village of Grimpen. Between the two,
because up to today there was nothing of importance to relate.
"Nitre?" he asked, at length.
55. _Here comes one_, etc. "Gregory may mean Tybalt, who enters directly
agate. Cf. _Much Ado_, iii. 1. 65: "If low, an agate very vilely cut."
_Mercutio._ No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so
unmistakable. It was the sob of a woman, the muffled, strangling
That, when she dies, with beauty dies her store.
My first impression as I opened the door was that a fire had
_Benvolio._ Two, two; a shirt and a smock.
That the life-weary taker may fall dead,
I had scarcely laid the first tier of the masonry when I discovered
representative. "Meanwhile," said he, "I have hardly had time to
declaring that it was not so. Why had he done this? And why did
moon has risen, and then we shall soon find the way."
Next morning, the woman said, "The Little Men have made us rich, and we
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
refuse; as in _K. John_, iii. 4. 23: "I defy all counsel," etc.
a cuplike depression, patched with stunted oaks and firs which
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
must hold our ground where we are." He dropped on his knees and
quality upon earth it is common sense, and nothing will persuade
shall last for three days, and you shall throw a Golden Apple. Perhaps
The true Bride rides with you!_"
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
a hole in the iron."
Meant in croaking "Nevermore."
This fundamental law of Shakespeare's verse is subject to certain
aids and abets her in her clandestine marriage. Do we not perceive how
_Nurse._ Now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old,
went angrily home. And when she opened her mouth, and was about to tell
can go. I have always done as you bade me, and you have always been
"I presume nothing."
What if it be a poison, which the friar
figure." The quarto, it is true, gives the "daintier" figure, which has
hen, and a whole armful of sweet-smelling hay for the cow. "I hope you
Howling attends it; how hast thou the heart,
when I have fought with the men, I will be cruel
the midnight churchyard, the blending of these images of beauty and
mind, and she sang these words to herself:
steadily in front. There is nothing so deceptive as the distance
Whenever he passed the mill-pond, he feared she might ascend and remind
Many a hardship have we known;
I am an old coachman, and drive a good hack,
126. _Respective._ Considerate. Cf. _M. of V._ v. 1. 156: "You should
and urgency of my task all struck a chill into my heart. The boy
"_King's Daughter, youngest.
towards the huge mottled expanse of green-splotched bog which
however, been waiting for this for a long time; and now, just as the
the forest.
see them!--and a servant brought a seventh as well, which was for the
"The moor is very sparsely inhabited, and those who live near
upon the floor, and behind them upon a perch sat a white dove with its
no tenant of the Hall. I fear lest I should be swayed too much by
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.                               150
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
Then the maids-in-waiting came, and put the most splendid clothing on
Students of criminology will remember the analogous incidents in
which the original editions omit a word from the text is in a speech of
she chanced to overhear some people talking about her, and saying,
vanished from sight.
chilled by our drive, so we took a grey view of the place. Now we
"On the whole," said Holmes, "I think that your decision is a
logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms!"
Thereupon the door closed, and the girl found herself again upon the
[Illustration]
In Juliet's case, I believe that the youthfulness was an essential
in these instances. We are seldom puzzled to explain the prose, but not
here's that shall make you dance. Zounds, consort!
in the Glass Mountain are your brothers."
The huntsman therefore betook himself with his dog to the forest. It
_Thou hast had, no thought for us,_
also for the uneasiness of his wife. The man is a
Under a hand accurst."
defence.
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
him to get the crown back again, or to leave the town for ever.
"We heard nothing of the kind," said I.
thought for you before my end. Money I have not, and what I now give
to itself in difficulties of situation and abrupt encounter with life's
monumental honour done to the lovers:
And now the wedding weedes for mourning weedes they chaunge,
explanation."
But to himself so secret and so close,
fingers goes not with me.
it is evident that he has done a great amount of walking with
cannot control his contempt and indignation when Romeo draws his
He walked for a short time by the side of Little Red-Cap, and then he
doubt. At length she thought, "I will go home and ask if it be I, or if
of the cow likewise began to blink. Then said the girl, "Ought we not
_Juliet._ I gave thee mine before thou didst request it;
out West, and I know one when I hear one. If you can muzzle that
The little brother did not drink, and said, "I will wait until we come
The King rejoiced beyond measure at the sight, but still he had not
proudest of thy sort," etc. _Utters them_ = literally, sends them _out_,
wait here until they come, step in."
That while Verona by that name is known                        300
perceived a beautiful woman, rising slowly out of the water. Her long
the Iron Stove disappeared, and was taken far away over glass mountains
"I could swear only to the beard."
his mind, like my own, was busy in endeavouring to frame some
was just as if the wind had whistled by.
43. _Burn daylight._ "A proverbial expression used when candles are
"_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, bleat,
wished to see to whom the beautiful maiden belonged.
in the character of his sister. The idea of using her as a decoy
The work to a man of my temperament was mechanical and
Precious stones were glistening on every side, so that it was a joy to
cry of satisfaction, and, following the direction of his eager
proceeds to the Royal Exchange, where the proclamation is read.
"If you will pay for them," answered the people; "but why should you
Release Date: January 18, 2012  [eBook #38612]
are particularly pretty and graceful in outline.
mercy due to the country."
or you will become a wild beast, and tear me to pieces."
has thawed and warmed the earth, they break through it, and come out to
_Capulet._ O brother Montague, give me thy hand;
The King's Son was beside himself with grief and in his despair he
9. _Fourteen years._ In Brooke's poem her father says, "Scarce saw she
added to that constant and apparently purposeless series of small
"Is it possible that you could come yourself, Mr. Holmes?"
"_She fals vpon her bed within the Curtaines_." The ancient stage was
to mould those young minds, and of impressing them with one's own
interrupted.  Had the prosaic finding of the coroner not
And hither shall he come; and he and I
_Benvolio._ Romeo! my cousin Romeo! Romeo!
bad in its way, but you haven't hit it. The _rebeck_ was a kind of
[Illustration]
and will help you once more out of your trouble. This road takes you
"_Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
combated evil, but to take on the Father of Evil himself would,
to bring her a wreath of field-flowers. When he went in with it, she
Soon afterward, he came to a city, where a King ruled who had a
the convict, and she knew that the hound was being kept in the
what a small house! To whom does this miserable, mean hovel belong?"
"The constraint, with sparing speech, visible in Juliet when with her
corner of the orchard. A key turned in a lock, and as he passed
Is partly to behold my lady's face,
2 _Servingman._ Ay, boy, ready.
They ran to it and found it was the Dwarf.
masterful men. There were pride, valour, and strength in his
plural. Cf. _W.T._ iv. 4. 89:--
with rage and fear, and could not stir. But iron slippers had already
"Why should I not go?"
dressing-gown for the promised interview. Our clients were
was very fond of the old man, and I knew that his heart was
For my wife, Dame Ilsabil,
"Alas, Wife," said the man, falling on his knees before her, "the
Ash-Maiden obeyed, but wept, because she too would have liked to go
The last red streaks had faded away in the west and night had
He would talk of nothing but art, of which he had the crudest
These dead men's tombs.
took care of them, so that they both, with all their hearts, repented
and _C. of E._ in particular) in the mouths of comic characters, but
"'_Bleat, bleat, my little Goat, bleat,
an apothecary's shop in the time of S. Nash, in his _Have With You_,
faith, and a corpulent," etc.
you. Go back and never set foot upon the moor again."
Chapter 5.
While yet the drops of early rain
"A waiting game."
The host cried for mercy. But the louder he cried, so much the more
MY DEAR HOLMES,
done to death in London without coming down to Devonshire at all.
and have nothing on, and must be cold. I'll tell you what I'll do. I
"It seems to me," said he, "just as if I had won the highest prize. My
says:--
obtained another--a most instructive incident, since it proved
thus afflicted with these strange flies, these fashion-mongers,
And gave him what becomed love I might,
A noble youth, therefore, was sent to ask the cat whether she "would
And do not interrupt me in my course.
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?--
350: "From women's eyes this doctrine I derive;" _A. and C._ v. 2.
certainly break off a branch from the tree for me."
wondered at, for time hangs heavily in this lonely spot to an
the pain, and went out to the King's Son. Then he took her on his horse
which he could help himself.
hazel eyes; what eye but such an eye would spy out
Then they kissed each other, and were happy all the days of their lives.
separated from oyster-shells and stones, which have their several
it--a fish that can talk I should certainly let go, anyhow."
_Benvolio._ This wind you talk of blows us from ourselves;
surly King wants me to do what can be done by no one, I will not wait
"_Church-door, break not,
_1828_.
we'll to dinner thither.
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
Holmes took a bundle of papers from his pocket.
"Yes, sir. I married, and so left the hospital, and with it all
94. _Convert._ For the intransitive use, cf. _R. of L._ 592, _Much Ado_,
shoe, but her heel was too large.
166. _In his view._ In appearance; opposed to _proof_ = experience. Cf.
102. _My fan, Peter._ Cf. _L. L. L._ iv. 1. 147: "To see him walk before a
He raised it to his lips with a leer.  He paused and nodded to me
[Picture: View of St. Paul's from the Thames]
It happened once that the father was going to the Fair, and he asked
And being frank she lends to those are free;"
to be both physical and spiritual. A study of family portraits is
The third said, "I grant that she may die a miserable death."
lady widow of Vitruvio; Signior Placentio and his
these more or less vague impressions there had come the definite
_Romeo._ Thou chidd'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
Suspecting that we both were in a house
Not a leaf more I'll touch,
approached by a double stair. From this central point two long
shores of the great unknown ocean. I presume that it is Mr.
must really give your horses a rest and come in to have a glass
_A.Y.L._ ii. 1. 22, _Lear_, v. 2. 308, etc.
_Peter._ Then have at you with my wit! I will                    120
went to the bottom, leaving a long streak of blood behind him. Then the
Then the man allowed himself to be persuaded, took the Singing, Soaring
190. _Dear hap._ Good fortune. The 1st quarto has "good hap," which
moving slowly away over the broad moor, and behind him that one
_Gregory._ I will frown as I pass by, and let them
and the water was as pure as crystal, and the sunbeams began to dance
this letter, and be at the gate by ten o clock. Beneath it were
possibly have heard my name from our mutual friend, Mortimer. I
"Why, of course, that would explain it. Have you read anything
HAENSEL AND GRETHEL
shilling. Here are twenty-three shillings."
And now the best food was cooked for poor Haensel, while Grethel got
Hath willingly departed with a part," etc.
THE POOR MILLER'S BOY AND THE CAT                                134
caught the apple should go away again, they should pursue him, and, if
to sit by a well in the highway, and _spin, spin_ till her fingers bled.
1567) "on the death of maister Arthur Brooke" informs us that he was
When twelve o'clock had struck, the door sprang open, and the Little
passage of your letter. It ran 'Please, please, as you are a
the Tomb of the Scaligers.
who is ill at ease.
Upon a rapier's point.--Stay, Tybalt, stay!--
"But your family have been with us for several generations, have
Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.
mind to bestir myself, and work for my living, for after all this idling,
to grope with it about the recess; but the thought of an instant
his excitement and his eyes had the hard, dry glitter which shot
Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
When the King's Daughter heard that, she began to weep. But now there
convict's, that Frankland had stumbled. If I could get his
leg excels all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and
The salad, however, was lying on the ground. "All right," said he, "the
eds.
for, in the great chamber.
In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
at once suspected the Queen. They looked and found the poisoned comb.
she was taken thither, and she also had to scrape for four-and-twenty
As I this tower of marchpane."
And this shall free thee from this present shame,
likewise of the ball which alone could point out the way.
a cup of wine. Rest you merry!                           [_Exit._
whom she compares herself, looking forward with mingled innocence and
The Little Man took the necklace, seated himself in front of the wheel,
grief and sadness.
184. _Mistress._ A trisyllable here.
17. _She is well._ See on iv. 5. 72 above.
"You are the true Bride," said he, "who went with me to church. Come
39. _Overwhelming._ Overhanging. Cf. _V. and A._ 183: "His lowering
it is certainly a very fine morning for a walk."
youngest, who was called Simpleton, set out to seek his brothers. When
retains _it seems_, thinks that the boldness of the simile led the poet
"Aha, you come just at the right moment!" he said, quite delighted, and
together, and laid them in a heap.
"Good evening, Mother."
go in this paper frock? It is so cold outside that one's very breath
up only on condition that she might for the third time sleep in the
"You are the poorest and also the richest," said he to her. "Come with
And pays one for climbing up here such a height.
present work to dwell upon memories of the past. Sir Henry and
surprise was intended.
how when there he had to chase his hat.
to introduce it in that way; but it is Romeo who is speaking, and the
_Romeo._ And is it not well served in to a sweet
The servants laid hold of Maid Maleen and wanted to drag her out, but
all that he can want. To commit a crime would be to show where he
native of this country: his name was Labelye.
She touched the stone, though very unwillingly, with her forefinger.
in his Appendix, p. 1420, though he does not give it there. "The idea of
"But it was some time coming. The old gentleman could not be
It was an old night-owl, which cried, "_Uhu!_" three times.
_Mercutio._ Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase,
broken out, for the room was so filled with smoke that the light
Did seeme to blot or touch at all the honor of his name.
She was uneasy, and begged him to stay there, and said, "You might
be done?" she cackled. But the cock calmed his beloved hen, and said,
"No, sir! he has used this hotel for many years, and he is very
with you."
Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore--
the beautiful Princess on the Golden Horse.
have discovered other ways of getting food."
iii. 1. 35.
birds. But there were many hundred Nightingales, how was he to find his
"Yes."
was amazed to see that the young man had done the task she had given
[Illustration]
of you. I am the son of a far greater King than your father, and I will
Of all my buried ancestors are pack'd;
"She is drawn with the most wonderful power and discrimination. In the
"We were some distance off, and this fog may have deadened them."
the little table, just say:
instant, and the chairs with velvet, and hung the windows with silken
The huntsman thanked the Wise Woman, and thought to himself, "Those are
will learn what poverty is. But as you have not a bad heart, and as I
"My dear Watson, clumsy as I have been, you surely do not
21. _Captain of compliments._ A complete master of etiquette. Cf.
silver tools. Behold! it was a great castle! Everything inside it was
"To the church-door?" she replied; "I don't talk to church-doors."
till they decayed, or were blown down by a high wind.
whatever to you."
with it, the King's attendants pursued him, and one of them got so near
she saw, not her little Roe, but a man with a golden crown upon his
of the text with similar work in _Love's Labour's Lost_ (a play revised
Then the children went home together, and were heartily delighted, and
have it bound up. And this was the little Gray Man's doing.
From this central block rose the twin towers, ancient,
William Grimm with the Grimm Introduction on the origin and educational
Than twenty of their swords; look thou but sweet,
vanished in front of us.
In former days, every sound had its meaning, the birds also had their
"Why about Sir Henry in particular?" I could not help asking.
at the threshold, he feares a mischief." Stumbling at graves is alluded
no companion to any human being!"
leaving him alone by the sea.
Inside, however, everything was lighted with thousands and thousands of
to them; a more sacred tie has severed all others. Her parents are
Many traces we found of him in the bog-girt island where he had
(_b_) Many monosyllables ending in _r_, _re_, _rs_, _res_, preceded by a
The first day, she made herself work diligently, and obeyed Mother
Queen.
off and try his luck. But his father would not allow it. "It is of no
that you desire me to do it."
the obstacles which divided us."
Environed with all these hideous fears?                           50
that this was indeed the chamber which had struck such a gloom
but no gold pieces fell, and it was clear that the animal knew nothing
O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!
sank down a yard deeper. In the meantime, he did not lose courage, but
And when the baker had rubbed his feet over, he ran to the miller and
"This is the very ecstasy of love,
from Princetown, sir. He's been out three days now, and the
Prospero entertained his thousand friends at a masked ball of the most
and weak, and they will do her good. Set out before it gets hot. Walk
of armour they had each worn.  Most of this armour is very rich, and
1. 153: "Will not conclude their plotted tragedy."
_Paris._ Happily met, my lady and my wife!
courtesy.
bed too."
Till now I never knew thee!"
turns against them, he realised his gains and returned to
You have nothing to do but to pay him his _fare_.
than I knew, since no practical good could result from it, but
him, he was led into the royal palace, where the King and Queen were
as the season for this hour. The _Generales Rubricae_ allow this at other
And world's exile is death. Then banished                         20
308. _Some shall be pardoned_, etc. In the novel, Juliet's attendant is
servants?" said the King's Daughter.
The Grandmother lived in the wood, half an hour's distance from the
Who in this land is the fairest of all?_"
Together we made our way down the precipitous slope and
_T.N._ v. 1. 394, _Cor._ v. 6. 73, _T. of A._ iv. 2. 21, etc.
centre green branches ascended, under which bounded hares and rabbits.
Sir Henry Baskerville
Who keeps my secret thoughts for me,_"
Early in the morning before the children were awake, she was up. And
was any criminal ever arrested. The last of these, at Folkestone
snow behind the little house with the broom. And what did she find but
inquiry?"
A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,                          50
this is, I must confess, a reproach to my management of the case,
"A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
indeed, seemed now deeply to feel that in the costume and bearing of
When King Cophetua lov'd the beggar-maid!--
little stable, and cried, "Haensel, we are saved! The old Witch is
morsel from each plate, and from each little glass she took a sip. But
_Romeo._ I must indeed, and therefore came I hither.
They called to her, and said, "Who are you?" But she made no answer.
the property? How could he claim it without causing suspicion and
_metre_, or the mechanism of verse, is something altogether distinct
only an amiable man in this world who receives testimonials, only
_Peter._ Pretty!--What say you, Hugh Rebeck?                     130
_Mercutio._ Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
wall, a gigantic clock of ebony.  Its pendulum swung to and fro with a
library, and so many other curiosities are to be seen, that even to name
What the Frog had said came true, and the Queen had a little girl, who
_1 Citizen._ Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?              140
chamber. The Bride, however, gave him a sleeping-drink, and he slept so
quivering mire, which shook for yards in soft undulations around
_Friar Laurence._ Go with me to the vault.
Why I descend into this bed of death
roses, white and red.
"Did it do you any good?"
Then all three went out together, and when they came to the village,
mouse and undone all the courtiers."
Then the huntsman lay down, and slept off his fatigue. When he awoke
and I am sure that they would be very glad to see you."
_Romeo._                         She speaks.--
hospital and yet not on the staff he could only have been a
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
The letter was not nice, but full of charge
off her head.
gleaming where the light strikes upon their wet faces. It is
40. _We must entreat_, etc. We must beg you to leave us to ourselves.
The tailor, however, was quite merry; he jumped about, whistled on a
with the time of the events that follow. Maginn would read "two and
when S. was writing.
in his eyes and a firm set of his thin lips, which goes with a
covers above forty acres of ground.  There are three hundred and
I, measuring his affections by my own,
"Cast of from thee at once the weede of womannish dread,
before a fine stag crossed his path exactly according to his dream. He
Then the Fox stretched out his tail, the King's Son seated himself upon
they buckle a red-leather girdle.  They are also furnished with a round,
be town-musician there. Come with me and engage yourself also as a
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen                      160
fault from what I hear may not have been entirely on one side.
Turn from their office to black funeral:
to shake it thoroughly till the feathers fly--for then it snows on
her hands and face clean, and then went and bowed down before the
miles away from yours. With all the goodwill in the world he may
they are fastened."
and offered his good advice. The youth was good-natured, and said, "Be
daylight, for if she does the other birds chase her and pluck her
on the spot which was once the centre of Fleet Ditch, which flowed as
Then he commanded a ton of gold to be brought. It took sixteen of his
Rodger Baskerville, the youngest of three brothers of whom poor
In man as well as herbs,--grace and rude will;
171. _I have forgot why I did call thee back._ We know, and she knew,
last had a little daughter, the Witch appeared at once, gave the child
Yet he also gives the idea of hidden fires. He has certainly a
it, but the trees, as is usual upon the moor, were stunted and
the other Mrs. Oldmore and maid, of High Lodge, Alton.
"Then take him to bed," said she to the cats.
"  4. (Wednesday) Act IV. sc. v.
improvisation, not a carefully elaborated composition. Shakespeare may,
In the Marriage Ceremony "till death us do part" was originally "us
THE GOLD-CHILDREN
day and might be away for months. There were reasons why I could
late?  Will not they be awaiting us at the palazzo, the Lady Fortunato
then changes his mind. Littledale suggests pointing "visage in!" It is
his attention."
Then she disguised herself, and took the shape of another old woman. So
fall into the little hand which she was holding up for it, but on to
wearily, he was already snoring so loudly that they could all hear him,
Scene III. _Juliet's Chamber_
the trend of his thoughts. He led me back into the
Then the old Witch said, "We have the bird's heart, but we must also
carry--dignified, solid, and reassuring.
The shape of some monstrous villainy, half seen, half guessed,
Tarry, sweet soul, for mine, then fly abreast,
un-Shakespearian expression, for which Otway's "stareth" (adopted by
the company that he would that very night render his body
anything remarkable about that?"
among the mare's-tails yonder? We are very rich in orchids on the
The Old Woman was angry and said, "Such a mantle is a wonderful thing,
hawk. Dyce quotes Cotgrave, _Fr. Dict._: "Tiercelet. The Tassell or male
Presently, the King's Daughter herself came down into the garden, and
to fill out the rhythm:--
all family portraits, I presume?"
Shakespeare_ (1902; more compact and cheaper than Dyce); Dowden's
into the wood, and fetch me a little basketful of strawberries,--I have
people may procure water.  The poor woman's cloak is frozen so hard, that
a valuable estate. When he went to Devonshire his plans were, I
There was once upon a time, an old Queen, whose husband had been dead
it, and put it into the golden cage. But at the same moment the bird
I suspect that after this poem was written he had become a Puritan,--or
whole soul; but expresses it as only Juliet could or would have
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow."
bow had the shape of the segment of a circle.
ancient charnel-house (now removed) adjoining the chancel of Stratford
making the total in the play greater than it is. The actual number in
CLEVER ELSIE                                                     117
you will find some very singular points about the moor, Dr.
119. _Why rail'st thou_, etc. Malone remarks that Romeo has not here
O friar, the damned use that word in hell,
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
was, but the King did not know, and said, "He followed the enemy, and I
At the end of the tragic story the poet asks:--
keep away wealth from the country, diminish the value of our
Thereupon the Wild Man appeared immediately, and said, "What do you
ACT II
NOTES                                                    157
112. _Banished._ Note how the trisyllabic pronunciation is emphatically
find it when you return to the hotel. What is the use of
walking slowly along in deep conversation, and I saw her making
[Picture: The Quadrant, Regent Street]
"_Church-door, break not,
London and the surrounding villages; the purpose of which is, that, on an
He cut them out at night, and next morning was about to set to work
_Montague._ But I can give thee more;
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
his headquarters. Within a radius of five miles there are, as you
Of my dug, and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
"So I read the riddle."
against me."
I saw the naturalist pause at the door of an out-house in the
[Illustration]
There was once on a time, a poor peasant called Crab, who drove two
O, what more favour can I do to thee
The father, however, rejoiced, for it had cut him to the heart to leave
of a hundred years, into which the Princess shall fall."
grey, lonely road, that my friend might soon be freed from his
likewise have a suit of red armor for the occasion, and ride on a
Then is the tombe of Iuliet and Romeus her knight."
for one, and Sir Charles for another. I gave a trifle myself. It
the most delicious food upon it, of which you may eat as much as you
the Princess was obliged to work like a servant, but before she went
on every field and forest, have you not seen a white Dove flying?"
Then they sat down, and he laid his head in her lap, and fell asleep.
his passionate despair, says, 'This may _flies_ do, but I from this must
and that an hour will come when the evil deed, which you have done to
they were driven away from each other, and carried into the blue sky
that we are both ready for our suppers."
cold hands are also mentioned.
vapour. As we watched it the fog-wreaths came crawling round both
With speedy help doth lend redress.'                 [_Exit._
which told of the sudden horror which had seized him.
dangerous mill-pond, and went, after he had disembowelled the stag, to
cottage and heard how he said, "My little Sister, let me in," and saw
"It is not the baronet--it is--why, it is my neighbour, the
To comfort you; I wot well where he is.
lodged, I find, at the Mexborough Private Hotel, in Craven
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
38. _Without his roe._ "That is, he comes but half himself; he is only a
you, and deliver me from these things, I should be happy."
venerable appearance and of saintly life. I remember that he
through the village in which his two brothers had remained. There was a
_Friar Laurence._                O, she knew well
MOTHER HOLLE
Ma! Ma!_"
And all the better is it for the maid.
Barrymore looked surprised, and considered for a little time.
aimed and was about to shoot it, when the stag ran away. He gave chase
Full of sorrow, the woman went back, but again the dream showed
heart cleft with the blind bow-boy's butt-shaft; and
come and help me to pick
present nature, he went on eating with great zest. At last he arrived
And private in his chamber pens himself,
Dyce quotes Holmes, _Acad. of Armory_: "_Bate_, Bateing or Bateth, is
Dwarfs. She knocked at the door. Little Snow-White put her head out of
And fearfully did menace me with death
"Since the tragedy, Mr. Holmes, there have come to my ears
Then she vanished, and Two-Eyes went home and said to her sisters,
improper. Cf. _C. of E._ iii. 2. 93: "such a one as a man may not speak
run a long way after he knew the animal was on his track. How did
Whatsoever comes in my way now is lost."
away no doubt by the foul reek of the surrounding swamp. In one
not change, but looked as if she were asleep; for she was as white as
pound of the strongest shag tobacco? Thank you. It would be as
be brought before him, and threatened with angry words that unless he
Amontillado price without consulting you in the matter. You were not to
"Yes, indeed. I have no doubt that my friend's explanation will
"Oh, yes, but Grethe, my wife, must go too."
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
stung her so hard that she sprang up crying, "_Ma! ma!_" and ran forth
Because he married me before to Romeo?
"That was what I wished you to think."
Then the animals took counsel together as to how they could drive away
the rascal the more the luck."
So now this volume of Grimm's _Fairy Tales_ is offered to our American
When they heard this strange cry, the King and all his people were
very moment too that her whole heart and fancy are abandoned to blissful
toward animals--and that you have done, and by you, at midnight, we
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!--
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air
the visit the less information we might obtain. I left Sir Henry
"Now is the parentes myrth quite chaunged into mone,
makes one shudder." The allusion to the "carrion flies" is bad enough,
still watch with the other, and the little miscreant shall not come out
these things tinged my thoughts with sadness. Then on the top of
"Why do you hesitate?"
I gazed with interest and some surprise upon the portrait.
"Whatever you will have, dear Frog," said she--"my clothes, my pearls
mention the matter again."
for you have no clothes and cannot dance. We should be ashamed of you!"
"It may be so placed as to be only visible from here."
happy in the next.
"Halloa, Beryl!" said he, and it seemed to me that the tone of
That as I see your pleasant face, your heart I may beholde.
"These are far better than pebbles!" said Haensel, and thrust into his
sherris-sack hath a twofold operation in it," etc.
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
120. _Modern._ Trite, commonplace; the only meaning of the word in S.
man's tomb." See also _R. of L._ 761, _Macb._ iii. 1. 99, etc.
"Footprints."
that end of the pipes next the town, always rising as high as that in the
There's blood within the shoe!
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
torches, and the Friar with a lantern. Romeo tells his servant to
_Gregory._ Draw thy tool; here comes two of the
live quite contented."
but you can take it from me that either he or I ought to be in a
At some hours in the night spirits resort;--
little cloak, and went down last with the youngest. Half-way down the
from my daughter's eyes. And then you can also imagine how the sight of
and then if you are carried away again, they will fall out and leave a
looked for work, but could find none, and he had learnt nothing by
The little brother did not drink, although he was so thirsty, but said,
conviction with them.
_Balthasar._                     I dare not, sir;
36. _Written there._ Cf. Brooke's poem:--
_Tybalt._ Well, peace be with you, sir; here comes my man.
hunting, I will heat the water. When it is boiling in the kettle, I
whole forest searched for the poor child, but no one could find her.
"Good day, old Dame," said the King's Daughter; "what are you doing
across the snow into the forest.
put them out."
"Oh, come with me," said the man, "if we three are together, we
There, as here, it means a mad outcry. Dyce quotes Settle, _Female
edition, and represents in an abbreviated and imperfect form the play
torch-bearers;" and 21 just below:--
loved, but the soldier danced with them unseen. And when one of them
finger-tips together, and assumed his most impassive and judicial
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb,
was from an authentic copy, and a careful comparison of the text with
dream, and yet I am just as tired as if I really had done everything."
trace of that silent and motionless figure.
"The better to hug you with."
awakened nature. Strangely enough, objections have been made to this
borne upon its surface. Holmes's face was turned towards it, and
drawn as much as we can from this curious letter; and now, Sir
striking-looking fellow, very well equipped to steal the heart of
very gross kind of behaviour, as they say; for the
An Apothecary.
Thereupon she took her by the hand, and led her to a large door. The
closed the curtain, feeling that my last impression was in
And, for because in Italy it is a wonted gyse
womanhood begins.
One-Eye went to her and said, "I will go with you to the pasture, and
Be the driver without, than the toper within.
"What do you desire?" asked the Wild Man.
and gaunt, and shrouded from head to foot in the habiliments of the
above. Secret poisoning became so common in Europe in the 16th century
to do what the wicked Witch ordered her.
But when the people heard the jingling of the bells, they would not
9. _A house._ According to both the poem and the novel, this was the
ponies!"
Fisherman got up and went home to his wife in the hovel.
_Friar Laurence._ Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
She said also, "I will willingly go away with you, but I do not know
_Servant._ To supper; to our house.
The little sister wept, and said, "Can you not be set free?"
"And you said nothing?"
contraction of _Gillian_ (see _C. of E._ iii. 1. 31), which is a
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.                          40
Two poor sinners were hanging on the gallows, and a crow sat on the
serrated roof and bristling chimneys hard outlined against the
accurate English translation.
"_With what should I be satisfied?
***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CITY SCENES***
therefore called little Snow-White. And when the child was born, the
that they went to bed with their wives and children.
in such a _puther_.  Pray, what's that there great round thing in the
THE GOLDEN GOOSE
My daughter he hath wedded. I will die,
in search of evidence. Here he kept his wife imprisoned in her
"There it is!" I cried.
The King's Daughter Pulled Off His Hat, and His Golden Hair
Husband, I beg you to do me a favor."
wings. And when he entered the house, the flies were asleep upon the
She shall be married to this noble earl.
and the brother, the latter not a very strong man. They would be
The Little Kids Cried, "First Show Us Your Paws"                  20
_Romeo._ Good morrow, father.
another glance showed me that it was carried on a stick by a man
shots must have told him that the game was up."
And, as it was beginning to rain, he drew his sword, and flourished
_Juliet._ As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
upon him for food and clean linen. When I was watching Stapleton,
been often (with great applause) plaid publiquely." A second quarto
with you, and get me some water from the stream, for I should like to
had she touched the spindle when the magic decree was fulfilled, and
certain that Sir Henry would frequently come to Merripit House
And view each City Scene.
walking into your life, and you know not whether for good or ill.
to jump on the Donkey's back, the Cat was to climb upon the Hound, and
"I am sorry that he has seen you."
yet I am sure that you will agree with me that the position was
_Romeo._ Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
kind eyes!
etc. Some critics have thought that a setting moon was meant; but only a
other purposes. Sir Thomas More observes that "Mandragora is an herbe,
to be cut at once by Fate."
people, coming to the East India House.
the tower, but none was to be found. He rode home, but the singing had
account of what we are all driving at."
[_Exeunt Lady Capulet and Nurse._
_Sampson._ True; and therefore women, being the
of the kingdom if he would leave her the child.
help you at all."
I will follow you and bring it."
his hands to examine them closer, and they were so neatly made that
I had not quoted him."
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
female deer as well as the spawn of a fish. Cf. _L. L. L._ v. 2. 309,
described in verse.
Cf. _T.G. of V._ iii. 1. 1: "Sir Thurio, give us leave, I pray, awhile;"
But the maiden laid it daily to heart, and thought that she must
He laid an envelope upon the table, and we all bent over it. It
sleep master him. When it struck twelve, something rustled through
So the fiddler came up, in his dirty, ragged clothes, and sang before
50. _To-night._ That is, last night, as in _M.W._ iii. 3. 171: "I have
97. _Tybalt_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
of the play as a true event occurring in 1303; but the earlier annalists
Every minute that white woolly plain which covered one-half of
Henry because his master was set free and was happy.
peaches. As I set it down again, after having examined it, my
Some misadventure.
"_Kling, klang, gloria.
occurs in iii. 3. 171 below.
tangle of brown hair adhering to it lay among the _debris_.
are sometimes in motion at once on a rainy day.  These are a great
Sure this seems the greatest and grandest to me!
96. _The gentle fine._ The sweet penance for the offence; that is, for
syllable of _disobedient_, and on the first and the last syllables of
The bounty of the fryer and wisdom hath so woune
49 below.
"_Little Duck, little Duck, dost thou see,
On some public occasions, as, when the king or any of the royal family
it do you to kill me? I should not be good to eat. Put me in the water
is good, but give me the entrails."
afterwards suffer--but "star-cross'd lovers." The fault is not in
shone upon something else which turned our hearts sick and faint
I needs must wake her.--Madam, madam, madam!
on, will you not, and see Merripit House?"
up there was a jingling all round about her, and the bells rang at each
in which Lestrade gazed at my companion that he had learned a
Haensel and Grethel are waiting for thee?
_colours_ in a livery; but it is rather the _effect_ of the colours that
he had ridden onward a little, he heard a rustling in the bushes, and
fondness for presentiments. Cf. ii. 2. 116, iii. 5. 53, 57, etc., below.
wish to make themselves happy or useful.
"I took her nothing."
of me."
she had some objection to make. One was too fat, "The wine-cask," she
millet with me and strew the seeds on the path."
At length, he went to the palace, and asked if they would take him in.
"My difficulty is the more formidable of the two, for I think
"Who--who's this?" he stammered.
41, 42. _Or if not so_, etc. Marshall doubts whether S. wrote these
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows                         50
one of the most busy spots in London, and is the most perfect system of
"No, no, I did not mean my husband. Sir Henry? Is he safe?"
creature," cried he, "it is not enough to drive you forth, I will mark
natural, and the transition to imaginary ordeals is equally natural.
named Briar-Rose, had been asleep for a hundred years; and that the
Irish word for knife (used by Warner, Greene, Chapman, and other writers
_Balthasar._ No, my good lord.
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
upon the Roe's back: that was her pillow, and she slept softly on it.
with you.
"[This from Hugo Baskerville to his sons Rodger and John,
that.
agree here; for it is the watery vapour in the _air_ that is condensed
The others laughed, and said, "Seek one for yourself when we are gone.
Now, therefore, when she began to weep and to cry, "Dearest Love, I set
"What are you gasping so for, you big fellow?" asked the Donkey.
their dependents. At one end a minstrel's gallery overlooked it.
_Page._ [_Aside_] I am almost afraid to stand alone             10
have "love, Lord, ay husband, friend," for which Dowden reads:
loaves one after the other.
Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
buffoonery of a clown. At this point of _R. and J._ there is a natural
6. _Unfirm._ Cf. _J.C._ i. 3. 4, _T.N._ ii. 4. 34, etc. S. also uses
cannot be said to have been settled. The majority of the editors believe
deductions."
the two gentlemen down Regent Street."
thought, "He will love me more than old Dame Gothel does;" and she said
A guttering candle was stuck in a crevice of the rocks which
We had come to a point where a narrow grassy path struck off from
he screamed, and the maid plucked the fowl ready for the spit.
that," thought he, "could not touch my heart, even if she were thirty
tool in his hands. Why should I preserve faith with him who never
caught her and brought her back. And when she looked at him it was King
knew whither they were gone.
night, and there was only one in the morning. I could get no
of sheer fright, and we know also what frightened him, but how
in the cottage was small, but neater and cleaner than can be told.
his fingers' ends and is able to argue with an expert upon his
"There are two lines of old yew hedge, twelve feet high and
said I was the first."
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
outline at the door of the hut, his shoulders stooping, his head
general "_Amen_."
seemed to see something terrible--a creature of infinite patience
said to him, "Will you be my servant and go with me?"
instead of obeying the dictates of reason. They think that the dramatist
What tho' at a tavern my gentleman tarries,
action. Cartwright had come down with me, and in his disguise as
for such a creature as this. And the fog gave us little time to
was called One-Eye, because she had only one eye in the middle of her
sisters, "To whom does this fine tree belong? Any one who will bestow
braggarts, Jacks, milksops!" etc.
said, "Now seat yourself on the bench before the door, and rest. You
[Picture: Greenwich and Chelsea Hospitals, and Pensioners]
breath to repeat his former anathema, 'A plague o' both your houses!'"
shimmering ice-field, with the heads of the distant tors as rocks
and looked at them.
The gard'ner and his greens,
52. _Bescreen'd._ Used by S. only here.
fellow is a Baskerville--that is evident."
And little Snow-White was willing, and went with him, and their wedding
day, and most of the night.  Carts are creaking under heavy loads of
Thereupon they both went to bed. But she was not satisfied, and
_Nurse._ Before, and apace.                            [_Exeunt._
Who in this land is the fairest of all?_"
144. _Bridegroom._ The 2d quarto has "Bride." This was used of both
and participles. _Unkind_ and its derivatives are often used by S. in a
He wanted to take her away with him to his kingdom, but she entreated
"Yes," said the mother, "if only any one would come who would have her."
_Mahomet_. _In her fortune's tender_ = when good fortune presents
"Did you ever write to Sir Charles asking him to meet you?" I
of abandoning your charge! But, by Heaven, if the worst has
anything from me. You say that your fare told you that he was a
it will make it easier if I tell you what occurred, and you can
plaything.
grief of this suddenly died." For the accent of _exile_, cf. iii. 1. 190
happy to have come with you, but that urgent business required us
The former Custom House having been burnt down, precautions have been
back, and did so again and again while he was throwing the white
I laughed incredulously as Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
The siluer streame with chanell depe, that through the towne doth flow:
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
scent like the beasts', and are aware when human beings draw near.
hearts of the most reckless which cannot be touched without emotion.
Then she placed the can before her, and turned the tap, and while the
gave him the golden ball, and hurried away.
he saw that the shepherdess was weeping bitterly.
conjunction) is common in S. Cf. _L. L. L._ v. 2. 813, _T. and C._ ii. 2.
Hawks." Malone says that the _tiercel-gentle_ was the species of hawk
minds at Baskerville Hall."
evidence of the Barrymores shows that this had been his
use in prayer. Romeo replies that the prayer of his lips is that they
looked at each other and smiled as if at their own nervousness and
And pretty brindled Cow,
The wedding was celebrated with magnificence; but when the procession
Lady Martin (Helena Faucit), who has played the part of Juliet with rare
to his heels.
bitterly that two streams ran down from her eyes.
They sat with their profiles towards me on either side of the
"But what you are really looking for is the centre page of the
So he stood and looked at her, and when he had looked at her thus for
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
To sell that which the cities lawe forbiddeth him to sell.
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
Romeo on one side and Mercutio on the other. Mr. F.A. Marshall thinks
39. _I will bite my thumb at them._ An insult explained by Cotgrave,
warren."
The sky was blue, and a fresh breeze played on their faces; but how
_Romeo._ Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
"And the warning--it must have come from her!"
drink."
found needful in the days of Charles the Second, after a daring,
window. But she saw nothing inside but Toads, big and little, except a
person, very limited, intensely respectable, and inclined to be
It happened that on the very day, when she was fifteen years old,
saw him not these many years," etc.
face, but her eyes had hardened again when she answered me.
sense, at least in New England. Steevens quotes Sumner's _Last Will and
down the walls, falling in heavy folds upon a carpet of the same
We know of no place better supplied with engines for putting out fire,
a cunning device, for, apart from the chance of driving your
"An hour before the worshipp'd sun
drunk some of the water. And as soon as the first drops touched his
friendship to Mr. Edwards, who was keeper of the jewels, he introduced
[_Exeunt Capulet, Lady Capulet, Paris, and Friar._
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back,
his love.
Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
ROMEO AND JULIET
former in much the same fashion, the scene is in verse. Dowden,
She ran as long as her feet would go, until it was almost evening. Then
sleeping. Then he ran home, shut the house-door, and sat down in his
84. _Adventure._ Venture, try the chance. Cf. _Cymb._ iii. 4. 156:--
The woman's story hung coherently together, and all my questions
Britannia, behind which is an observatory, which affords a view over
But Two-Eyes knew what was in One-Eye's mind, and drove the goat into
thousands of ants, and the grateful creatures had, by great industry,
how to get to the Golden Horse. You must go straight on, and you will
Some proud folks get a fall at last;
The young heir glanced round with a gloomy face.
21. _Logger-head._ Blockhead. Cf. _L. L. L._ iv. 3. 204: "Ah, you whoreson
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
"Capels'." The singular seems better here, on account of the omission of
on the occasion of the marriage of Henrietta of France, daughter of
then we shall see the crumbs of bread which I have strewn. They will
pocket and found the three nuts which the old Toad had given her. She
better with him. As soon as twelve o'clock had struck he fell asleep,
The third said, "My gift is, that a King shall come and take her to
I wished to go in that direction and to search the tor, but it
Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
"She is Frankland's daughter."
Renews the way, denied to coach or cart?
road, would be surprised to see the streets of London paved as neatly as
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,"
over the moor, and he is a fellow who would stick at nothing. You
know."
from his former depression which is like his dream of rising from the
Grammar_ (1873); Furness's "New Variorum" ed. of _Romeo and Juliet_
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him,                         30
Jorinda was singing:
cannot dance. You would only be laughed at."
"I did not know of a close intimacy."
on the sand, than there was a stirring in the depths, and a wave rushed
and adverb.
"What did you take her?"
courtyard, and while he was playing, his golden ball fell into the
there is Luchesi--"
at his heels. But now from somewhere among the broken ground
So she went and brought some barley and strewed it for the cock and
many more, perhaps, for they get in the way of going there in the
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
do for me. I must and will have the whole bird!"
female lines with two extra syllables (see on 1 above) or with other
with sombre patience for the coming of its tenant.
satisfactory than an answer, however, for the door opened and a
before.
nor will the pieman wait to hear what the news is.  So that they are not
one finds another."
building; the one representing the royal arms, the other those of the
way," but they did not find it.
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;                       20
Why, the coachman grows richer than he whom he carries;
Brags of his substance, not of ornament.
disarranged my plans. He can't be very long, now. It is already
_Romeo._ Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
Royal Court.
A little investigation showed me that a school had come to grief
It strikes me solemn to think of it."
Street until evening. It was nearly nine o'clock when I found
She walked the whole night long, and next day also without stopping,
i' faith; wisely, wisely.
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
To stop the inundation of her tears,
"But I can't forget them, Miss Stapleton," said I. "I am Sir
perfume the breath are mentioned by Falstaff, in _M.W._ v. 5. 22.
knowing the motives of his actions and could only learn part of
He urged her and left her no peace, but he could draw nothing from her.
to go carefully when there's a lady in the case. Even the best of
he got away from us so successfully, and also of his audacity in
"Yes, sir."
"And you, Ash-Maiden," said he, "what will you have?"
Thus hath his foe in choyse to geue him lyfe or death:
The "omission, mutilation, or botching" by which some German editors
"In that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were
"Good evening, Mistress Miller. Why are you crying so?"
Raise up the Montagues;--some others search.--
ate and drank, his heart desired what he saw, and he would willingly
in iii. 3. 20 and v. 3. 211 below.
suspicions or how you propose to investigate the case, I might
him credit for, deduced from the cigar ash?"
And next, I shall the Queen's child take!
the evening, when we are done, we will come and fetch you away."
"I will tell you why," replied the master; "if any one has done
"Never mind, will do better next time."
terror shall hold her back? She will pass through the horror of hell
"Then had you not better consult him?"
Young Abraham Cupid, he that shot so trim
such a cry as that. And my uncle! There was the footprint of the
If wedlocke be the ende and marke which your desire hath found:
When it was bedtime, and the others went to sleep, the mother said to
73. _A crutch, a crutch!_ The lady's sneer at her aged husband. For her
"What!" cried the father, "a Cudgel! That's worth your trouble, indeed!
Next morning, the King had the entire town searched for his daughter's
"I have my doubts," I replied; "and I was silly enough to pay the full
sharply from Holmes to me. "Dear me! What a very shocking affair!
mind, and thought to himself, "It will not end well! It will not end
_Mercutio._ More than prince of cats, I can tell you.             20
of the moor, with no sign of life near it--just the one straight
heard from him in the morning.
be cold."
more."
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
of joy he took it to the King, and expected that he would grant him the
know whether he should run away or stay where he was.
their appreciation."
have rest."
secondarily, the breaking it asunder for light to come through. It
was still black enough, but this man had at least deserved death
impenetrable. The walk in the centre is about eight feet across."
changed."
bottle of spirits standing in the corner. In the middle of the
surprise and delight in Verona itself."
make merry together, and eat and drink."
MERCUTIO, kinsman to the prince, and friend to Romeo.
folio in deference to the statute of James I. against the use of the
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
_Friar Laurence._ Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
_spicery_ (Fr. _epicerie_), which was used both for the material (_Rich.
III._ i. 3. 317: "To pray for them that have done scathe to us," etc.
When spring was come and all outside was green, the Bear said one
be critical. There was nothing for it, however, but implicit
"It certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little
"Then he divided the kingdom between the two elder, but caused a sack
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
don't want to keep any longer. Will you take them in, and give them
require."
The huntsman obeyed, and took her away. But when he had drawn his
fused together, and Romeo who was weak has at length become strong."
that any one looking on would have thought it was growing before his
questions. To his eyes all seemed beautiful, but to me a tinge of
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
hazard, is very just. The author, who seems to intend the character of
practised upon me, but the warmth of Holmes's praise drove my
_Nurse._                            Romeo can,                    40
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
no need of secrecy between you and me. What is the meaning of it
down his back.
"Can you not imagine," said she, "how your mother would mourn if any
Watson, I think that we cannot employ our time better than by
They led him to the spot where it was hidden.
reason they had eliminated everything which they feared might harm the
Hans takes the calf, puts it on his head, and the calf kicks his face.
thought that if he heard the story from my own lips he would help
the Stapletons, Dr. Mortimer, and Frankland, of Lafter Hall, let
_Friar Laurence._ Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
57. _Atomies._ Atoms, or creatures as minute as atoms. Cf. _A.Y.L._
"Have I not reason to weep?" she answered. "The goat, which covered the
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
There was once a forester, who went into the forest to hunt. When he
in vain for a Singing, Soaring Lark for the youngest, and he was very
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
which had come out of the house with her, barked at the man violently.
See on i. 5. 30 and v. 3. 207.
after some time, he made his escape, and entered on board the _Desperate_
Henry, who offered explanations, which became more angry as the
pleasure?
[Illustration]
the unpleasant hypothesis!--who would inherit the estate?"
And now I come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular
and said:
out-pensioners, who receive seven pounds each per annum.  Both hospitals
All the people grieved for the handsome youth; then they went away;
which she had received from the Bridegroom.
entirely in prose) and others in which the two are mixed. In general, we
Well done, my good boy! and well done, my good dog!  Why the dog works as
parties are accommodated.  This is the business of a trader; and his
Chaucer now is grave;" and Steevens remarks that we have the same
housewife has no pity, and has told the cook that she intends to eat me
"I only meant, sir, that Sir Charles led a very retired life, and
knowledge of nature in his sad and solemn poem of _R. of L._, where the
Baskervilles. We're not likely to forget him."
to pluck.
the castle. But they found it impossible, for the thorns held fast
The King and the huntsmen saw the pretty creature, and started after
infamous Upwood. So far as the case of the hound goes, however, I
feet behind me and by a voice which called me by name. I turned,
away to other people?"
it out when first I saw the light flashing upon the lens." He
every evening to see if you have obeyed my order."
and of gloom. It was he who had been the first to discover the
82. _Sweeting._ A kind of sweet apple. The word is still used in this
prefer to sit by the fire and spin, rather than hunt about after mice,
Then were the two sisters glad, for they had pretty feet. The eldest
gentleman, burn this letter, and be at the gate by ten o'clock.'"
that it might be killed by the pickaxe, if it should happen to be
figure 'seeking out Romeo.' At the mention of Romeo's name I used to
is a signal? Come, speak up! Who is your confederate out yonder,
5.  Billingsgate,
acquaintance of Sir Henry?"
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?                   271
"No, no, my dear Watson, not all--by no means all. I would
Coombe Tracey until the early hours of the morning. Such an
to the Amontillado."
as in _A.W._ i. 1. 86, _Lear_, i. 4. 328, etc.
compelled to do servant's work until cock-crow.
showed him his path.
That I might touch that cheek!
surprised if it should give you a toss or two.  Cruel folks are always
any reference to the lady's own wishes and that the lady should
When the King put the question, "Where have my Twelve Daughters danced
His mamma to a neighbour did send,
With purple fountains issuing from your veins,
131. _Frank._ Bountiful; repeated in _bounty_. Cf. _Sonn._ 4. 4:--
In the evening, the young turner reached the inn where his brothers
So the Gold-Child rode joyfully through the forest, and no evil befell
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
Baskerville in the morning."
_Misogonus_, a play by Thomas Rychardes, written before 1570.
black shadow was trailing down the corridor. It was thrown by a
feel very warm too."
asked him why he was so sad? The miller was at first struck dumb, but
Therefore love moderately, long love doth so;
"His name," said the cabman, "was Mr. Sherlock Holmes."
such a longing for it that she would have died, if she had not got some
Till she had laid it and conjur'd it down.
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lov'st,
"Except yesterday afternoon. I usually give up one day to pure
85. _O woful sympathy_, etc. The early eds. give this speech to the
name upon her lips." The lady adds: "What it is to act it I need not
finally brought the case within the scope of our observation.
157. _Nice._ Petty, trivial. Cf. _Rich. III._ iii. 7. 175: "nice and
Forgive me, cousin!--Ah, dear Juliet,
indifference to my admiration and to the attempts which I had
He was a strong-minded man, sir, shrewd, practical, and as
see each other they were sad.
acquaintance with both the rival houses, though more intimate with the
123. _Affections._ Feelings, inclinations. Cf. _Ham._ iii. 1. 170:
him what he wanted for the scythe, and he received a horse laden with
been put up a long time, and he could get none of it. So they looked
could lure wild beasts and birds to her, then she killed and boiled and
mark of respect.
BEAK"]
eyes. By the evening all was ready.
And then, _above all_, what a very thick smoke!
would cook good sweet Porridge. And when she said:
"How on earth did you do that?"
(Johnson). Cf. ii. 3. 93 and ii. 4. 34 above.
Dr. Mortimer, with more practical sense than I should have given
We apples are all ripe!_"
disapprobation in his face when Sir Henry has been paying some
most elegant and splendid taste, and was said to be the most beautiful in
"I heard it distinctly, and I am sure that it was really the sob
boiling up in my head, and I can't get it clear yet. You don't
[_Enters the tomb._
"I have my doubts."
[Picture: The General Post-office]
231. _Passing._ Often used adverbially but only before adjectives and
[Illustration]
return to you safely."
reverent dealing with a situation even more perilous for the dramatist.
If the moon should run foul of it, one of these days.
similar to a woman's gown; and in winter they wear a yellow woollen
_2d Servant_: i. 5(7); iv. 2(5), 4(2). Whole no. 14.
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
Nay, I do bear a brain;--but, as I said,
To think it was so?--O, give me thy hand,
Of Lumbard townes, or at the least compared with the best."
went round and round the tower, and called their names, but no sound
been shut up in the tower or dead."
"I hope that you will come also. They are very hospitable people,
the table was spread, and Crab was told to sit down and eat.
asked me whether I had on my medical journeys at night ever seen
meadow, he perceived his old friend the stork, who was walking backward
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
its prey. I've heard it once or twice before, but never quite so
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
who could not admire it enough, placed it in his largest hall, and in
_Juliet._                        Ay me!
the horses in the courtyard stood up and shook themselves. The hounds
but why should the Cudgel be in it? It only makes it heavy."
together into the wide world."
as you will, only I make one condition, you must give me the child
last passed Frankland's house and knew that we were drawing near
horror of her.
she weep so bitterly? Already round this pale-faced, handsome,
Behold the playful monkey on its head, and numbers of fearless boys upon
them, they would do as little as a watchman when he takes a nap.
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have led the calf, and put it in
Stand not amaz'd; the prince will doom thee death
them lived in tents or booths for a considerable time after.
comfortable manner.  A chair-bottomer is a very useful man: he
happen."
himself appear important he said to him, "I have a daughter who can
_Aburne_, mine is perfect _Yellow_." These are the only instances of the
upon which tragedy has been played, and upon which we may help to
of wine, that he might not suffer from hunger or thirst.
And you, young gentleman, I say,
man, well-esteemed since those who know him give him this mark of
he was snoring so loud that the branches shook. She looked at him on
her, but she did not touch it. Next day, she again went out with her
When she got there, she began to scrape, and the iron gave way, and
"A skilled trade," said the father. "What have you brought back with
Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all;
situation, hardly a speech, essential to Brooke's poem, which has not
Grant White remarks: "The tragedy follows the poem with a faithfulness
he did when he was alone in the forest. She gave a great deal of money
"The marks were some twenty yards from the body and no one gave
The maiden was alone the whole day, so the good Dwarfs warned her and
and kings were on their knees before her, kissing her shoe.
merchandise, mail-coaches are driving to and from the post-office with
"Can you, then, tell me the name of any woman whose initials are
contemplation." See _R. of L._ 1366 fol. and 1496 fol.
Mrs. Laura Lyons. By representing himself as a single man he
and Romeo), _any_ talk of that kind." Perhaps, as Dowden suggests, the
Then, little by little, the King caused all his treasure to be brought
I ratify this my rich gift," etc.
desire.
_Romeo._ Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
bundle of linen on his back that is as big as a house?" and he was
196. _Sadness._ Seriousness. Cf. _A.W._ iv. 3. 230: "In good sadness, I
Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
out. It is very probable, therefore, that in the absence of his
The East India Company is one of the most powerful and wealthy
waiting upon the platform.
Turning his face to the dew-dropping South.                      100
And so she ran from the path into the wood to look for flowers. And
_Romeo._                         'Tis the way
Constabulary is in a scandalous state, sir, and it has not
37. _I do remember_, etc. Joseph Warton objects to the detailed
advantage of two conversations with Mrs. Stapleton, and the case
do?"
238. _Perforce._ By force, against her will; as in _C. of E._ iv. 3. 95,
there are some things to which I am ready to swear. He is no one
up a gap which I had been unable to bridge in this most complex
nevertheless escaped from them, but his horse leapt so violently that
mentioned by Sir Henry to the Stapletons, must remove the last
times; but we have "dry basting" in _C. of E._ ii. 2. 64.
295. _A brace of kinsmen._ Mercutio and Paris. For the former, see iii.
in that which he was doing. When at last we reached the door and
brought it up to me."
_Juliet._ Where is my mother! why, she is within;
of geese in a waste place among the mountains, and there had a little
crying, "Oh, what helpless chicks we are! We must shift for ourselves,
you can only find mercy if you take away the hill which stands in
rest.
180. Nares says that it formerly meant "a meat pie, or perhaps any other
50. _As._ As if; a common ellipsis.
Once upon a time, in the middle of winter, when the flakes of snow were
On the second day, she had inquiries made in the neighborhood as to
THE HEDGE-KING
And pretty brindled Cow,
came too near him, and wished to attack him, he said:
he rose up and mounted so high that he reached heaven itself. When,
presently; as in iii. 1. 173 and iii. 3. 76 below.
they did not wake her up, but let her sleep on in the bed. And the
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
appeared in 1562 in a poem by Arthur Brooke founded upon Boisteau's
the hall door. Beyond, two copses of trees moaned and swung in a
gentleman goes forth on a showery and miry day. He returns
yourself. When Mortimer told me your name he could not deny your
contrivances to let the ends of it fall on one another's toes. This will
him."
The Cask of Amontillado
The coach was to conduct the young King into his kingdom. Faithful
of a woman."
_Juliet._ To answer that, I should confess to you.
Barrymore.
In old times, when wishing was having, there lived a King whose
mother's bed before she awoke, in which was a rose from each tree. In
figures on the outside of the clock, that strike the quarters with their
Stapleton still looked hard at him. Then he turned to me.
and waited there until two gentlemen came out and took a cab from
5. _Uneven._ Indirect. Cf. the use of _even_ in _Ham._ ii. 2. 298: "be
She said, "Ah, but do come with me, I will take great care of you and
be at Baskerville Hall."
saw his head for quite a long time craning out of the bog-hole,
wooing--and a mighty poor wooing at that! Where had you engaged a
Melchior, Balthazar,_ and said all the names she knew, one after
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
critics who are in error, not S. Walafrid Strabo (_De Rebus Eccles._
to the driver, and the cab flew madly off down Regent Street.
The Witch suspected nothing amiss, and her mouth watered so for this
some one? You are already two too many for me. Can you not think of
France, and is admirably contrived to convey intelligence in a very
When evening arrived, she wished to leave, and the King's Son followed
My master knows not but I am gone hence,
55. _Despis'd, distressed_, etc. In this line, as in 51, note the
Hunter quotes Wilson, _Retorique_, 1553: "as in speaking of constancy,
and laced so tightly that little Snow-White lost her breath and fell
that I had his love, but now I know that in this also I have been
[_Exeunt Capulet and Paris._
hand. He was in shirt and trousers, with no covering to his feet.
a man with a full, black beard."
possible!"
space between us grew ever wider. Finally we stopped and sat
_Enter_ ROMEO, MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, _with five or six_ Maskers,
121. _Give me, give me!_ Cf. _Macb._ i. 3. 5: "'Give me,' quoth I."
"Certainly, but how?"
Come with me to my father's palace, you shall be my wife."
pigeons pecked out one eye of each of them. Afterward as they came
To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
Dunderhead, and was despised, mocked, and put down on every occasion.
Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,
When evening came, Ash-Maiden wished to leave, and the King's Son was
"Very serious, indeed--the one thing upon earth which could have
whether she really was Clever Elsie or not, and said, "Is it I, or is
perhaps means Lady Capulet, not the Nurse; and, as Dowden suggests,
down by it, and was about to drink it up, when she fell into the water,
shoes under the bed, and lay down. Next morning, the soldier was
the old form of the word, found in several other passages in the folio
This is a wonderfully fine building! and the countryman's amazement on
(which, with a slow and solemn movement, as if more fully to sustain
also?"
house-surgeon or a house-physician--little more than a senior
[Illustration: WHEN THE CORN WAS RIPE, THEY SHOT IT DOWN]
this beautiful green meadow belong?"
people who frequent it.  On the other hand, in ancient times, it was the
With that he drew her under his mantle, wished himself on the Garnet
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
And dusky night, in rusty iron car;
But the Dwarfs answered, "We will not part with it for all the gold in
209. _The siege_, etc. Cf. _V. and A._ 423:--
inquest, but at least enough has been done to dispose of
was so tired, she laid herself down on one of the little beds, but none
_Romeo._ What, shall I groan and tell thee?
her and began loudly to weep over the misfortune.
106. _Discovered._ Revealed, betrayed. Cf. iii. 1. 145 below, where it
"Now, Hans, come and dance with me."
from the _music_ of verse. The one is matter of rule, the other of taste
of the preceding line.
full of water, and light the fire.
transcribing my own letters to Mr. Sherlock Holmes which lie
clean, you may stay with us and you shall want for nothing."
call forth Juliet, she opens the curtains and the scene again becomes
his sister is really his wife."
questionable in this man's character, but the adventure of last
in the outskirts of the town, or delivers it at some wharf by the
good.  A word to the wise is sufficient.  But as many dealers in old
Henry put on his hat and prepared to go out. As a matter of
"I have only been here two years. The residents would call me a
The two children were so fond of each other, that they always held each
arrive you will send a wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, in my name,
That I must love a loathed enemy.
you name."
according to their rank and standing. First came the Kings, then the
to eliminate you having to download all 11 kilobytes of our header and
cook that they had seen nothing in the forest but a little rose-bush
it went on, every time he got up. He gathered together a heap of gold,
Then said the mother likewise, "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat
thus cut off from the sky and from the earth. There they sat in the
rest, he will not be strong enough to carry you across. If you forget
And, on my life, hath stolen him home to bed.
lips, he lay there a young Roe.
only _busy men_, but what is very different, _men of business_.  They are
alone!" and she told him that she had seen from her little window, how
book to give even a very short account of them.  Here are such a
to arrange to go with me. With that I offered in as many words to
few seconds in a frock-coat. We hurried together down the stairs
and we will both lie down and go to sleep."
enchanted Princess."
festival too, and only came home yesterday evening. He has likewise
"Listen," said the Fish, "if you will throw me back into the water
nursery by the cradle, and who was the only person awake, saw the door
youth lay down on the bench, under a wild apple-tree. The air was warm
Prepare for a wooer this house of mine._"
"chiastic" construction of which S. was fond. Cf. _M.N.D._ iii. 1. 113,
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
some one in the company has suggested an introductory speech. See the
Beside the winter's fire,
THE POOR MILLER'S BOY AND THE CAT
have a hip-pocket, and as long as I have my hip-pocket I have
you all the little attentions in my power."
V._ iii. 4. 25: "The husbandry and manage of my house," etc. It is
8. _Sick._ The 1st quarto has "pale," which is adopted by some editors.
Marston, _Dutch Courtezan_: "Why then thou hast nine lives like a cat,"
_beetle_ in _Ham._ i. 4. 71.
which you prefer.  We have traditionally used the smallest number of
the 15th of June, 1825.
unalterably fixed that it is perfectly useless to think more about it.'
"My necklace," said the girl.
a trencher! he scrape a trencher!
THE DONKEY CABBAGES
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
The telescope, a formidable instrument mounted upon a tripod,
history you will know that I made a rash marriage and had reason
At last, she came to a little house out of which an Old Woman was
literally to all Romeo's speeches about saints and palmers. But it
There are two questions waiting for us at the outset. The one is
harm shall happen to you."
the wings, as the hawk did when unhooded and eager to fly. Cf. _T. of
was deep and sincere, and to him the saddest part of all this
cut the rose-bush in two, and have broken off the rose and brought it
perhaps even now give you some aid or advice."
"_Nemo me impune lacessit_."
The latter was a small, alert, dark-eyed man about thirty years
The animals again replied "_Duks_." And everything happened just as it
pleased him so much, that he said, "She is the one whom I wish to
The shoemaker said, "One must look before one leaps. I will take with
My first thought was that I should be by Sir Henry's side. But
177. _And stay_, etc. The pointing is White's. Most editors follow the
the roots of mandrake, ... and make thereof an ugly image, by which they
shall be my wife, but she whose foot this golden slipper fits."
to whom also you will give a shilling. Here are twenty-three
109. _Prick of noon._ Point of noon. Cf. 3 _Hen. VI._ i. 4. 34: "at the
writing could still be read, though it was grey on a black
bread-and-butter and cake.
to my house to-night, and decide whom you like best of the beauties
already heard about her big teeth. She hired herself out immediately.
and tapped the lid briskly as she went that the time might not appear
And on the third morning, stood water for washing and water for
Thy tears are womanish, thy wild acts denote
is very rarely made a separate syllable.
When the miller saw it, he said such a horse as that had never before
the play is called. Next they are told that the children of these two
52. _Your plantain-leaf._ The common plantain (_Plantago major_), which
Now we have a view of Covent Garden Market, where plants, fruit, and
closed one nostril, and with the other blew on the two regiments. Then
Which, but their children's end, nought could remove,
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
parents, and her plebeian nurse, not only throw into beautiful relief
sorrowful. Joringel was sorrowful too. They were as sad as if they were
"What do you make of it yourself?"
purchasers.
lions, tigers, leopards, bears, monkeys, &c.  As they are confined in
King's Daughter, youngest!
feet."
Then she wept bitterly and said, "I have done great wrong, and am not
A._ 808: "My face is full of shame, my heart of teen;" _Temp._ i. 2. 64:
moment, rules in Juliet's soul, that she is as much shocked by the
_Romeo._ That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
girl has had a pretty bad time."
fairly last night.
blue, though on every side it was as red as in a heavy storm. So, full
marriage that would forever separate her from her lawful husband, or
father. "I do not know to which I ought to give the house."
It pleased the maiden so well that she let herself be beguiled, and
There was once a woman who had three daughters, the eldest of whom
Desolate, yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted--
Holmes returned to his seat with that quiet look of inward
recovering drowned persons.  It is called the Humane Society.  They have
"We all begged and prayed for her," said the Queen, "but the King's
expedition. We hurried through the dark shrubbery, amid the dull
for extinguishing fires, it has acquired the former name, more from
hazel-bush. Ash-Maiden thanked him, went to her mother's grave and
the other hand, were defined as "common wit, imagination, fantasy,
"What commands have I to give you?" replied the soldier, quite
But when I came to think the matter over my conscience reproached
92. The 1st quarto has here the stage-direction, _"Tibalt under Romeos
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree.
"Ah, yes, with all my heart," she answered, for she was glad to get
When it was evening, she said to her Bridegroom, "That silly girl will
dreams.  And these--the dreams--writhed in and about taking hue from
The King had three sons, the eldest of whom he sent, as soon as night
further about this matter in the morning."
So the Queen thought the whole night of all the names that she had ever
are no rights of property, and that they can swarm where they
He had risen and paced the room as he spoke. Now he halted in the
good deal of Sir Charles Baskerville. With the exception of Mr.
and 160 feet wide, a representation of which was too large to introduce
imagine themselves in love--sometimes again and again--before a genuine
therefore, that she might have no chance of warning Sir Henry,
"Well," She Laughed, "He Has a Chin Like a Thrush's Beak"        146
61 below.
than that a ghost had come in, and fled in a great fright out into the
cross the Grimpen Mire by the path which Stapleton had marked
The little boy and girl, who stand hand in hand, before the man with the
resurgence against, the check of her superiors!"
Cf. ii. 4. 110 below: "that God hath made for himself to mar." See also
innocence certain critics (in their comments upon the soliloquy in iii.
_Friar Laurence._ Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here!
Bridegroom's apartment. The King's Son was, However, on his guard, and
Boisteau translated it, with some variations, into French in his
"It chanced that some little time later Hugo left his
have you come to consult me at all? You tell me in the same
83. _Pilcher._ Scabbard; but no other example of the word in this sense
full of joy because of this deliverance. And when they had driven
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul has spoken!
forget that we have a christening to-day!" and running after him he
"Oh! but Grandmother, what a terrible big mouth you have!"
He does not use _fettle_ elsewhere, and the long _s_ and _f_ were easily
Red-Cap did not know what a wicked creature he was, and was not at all
Ma! Ma!_"
in their mournful ditty.
their cigars.
Tho' much all who heard of it wonder'd,
_Mercutio._ Yea, is the worst well? very well took,
he chanced to see one of his comrades passing by.
The nurse did not answer, but when the Queen had gone again, went to
As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
look for some big stones. We will fill the wicked beast's stomach with
not get there earlier."
"Brief as the lightning in the collied night,
"Creep in," said the Witch, "and see if it is properly heated, so
Among the graves I leapt about,
neighbours. The figure was far taller than that of Stapleton, far
alarm of fire, the managing director may ascertain the position in which
over all the mountains--one here, the other there.
Witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but they have a keen
the other side of the wall under which I crouched. Looking over,
began to smoke.
Holmes."
when he was gone the children were still in bed. Then Lina said to
rows of gold lace, and bound round the waist with a girdle of the same
asked why he had not done what he had been ordered to do. But the
good a man as you.
superstitious fears in the matter?"
"I feel that also, sir, and so does my wife. But to tell the
In stately tombe, on pillers great of marble, rayse they hye.
There stood the poor maiden, who had wandered so far and was again
"Well, I'm glad to hear you say so," said Sir Henry, glancing
Grethel began to weep bitterly. But it was all in vain, she was forced
knocked at the door as if he wished to be let in. The mother said,
as to be able to get to the General Post Office in time for sorting them
privilege of inspecting it. Byron went to see it in 1816, and writes
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
heard the voice of the Witch, she unfastened her braided tresses and
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
"_Snowy-white, Rosy-red,_
little sister was tired, and had said her prayer, she laid her head
56.  The Watchman.
the treasure which I have won for myself, and am carrying about with me
whole story, and asked what sentence such a one merited?
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
"Good-bye, Grethel."
(Steevens).
but that by prayer and repentance it may be removed.  Learn
round table. Both of them were smoking cigars, and coffee and
food: that of the young is reckoned a delicacy.
family, and when this tragedy came I naturally felt that there
He made a bed of moss for the boy on which he slept. And the next
been aware that his master and mistress were really husband and
COME, peep at London's famous town,
Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber.
however, be the Nurse, who here seems to be treated as a kitchen
off a twig from each, which made such a crack each time that the
angry that he broke out and betrayed the secret. In an instant the
Soon he grew afraid lest the child should die without being baptized,
Stapleton as an unmarried man, she counted no doubt upon becoming
earthquake felt in England on the 6th of April, 1580. Malone notes that
There shall no figure at such rate be set
Being a heavy stick the dog has held it tightly by the middle,
[Illustration: TOMB OF THE SCALIGERS, VERONA]
after another forced itself out of her eyes, and rolled through her
know now what I said to the church-door," and she repeated the words.
it echoed through the trees.
sometimes a letter may be legible even when burned. You
a heavy shower of Gold-Rain fell, and all the gold stuck to her so that
fortune and so draw his sting and leave him harmless for the
"Well, he asked me for anything outside the ordinary routine."
other windows in the house--it commands the nearest outlook on to
"Oh, I'll behave well. Good-bye, Mother."
fulfilled. Before a year has gone by, you shall have a daughter."
Then they began to run, rushed into the parlor, and threw themselves
ONE-EYE, TWO-EYES, AND THREE-EYES
strange jagged summit, dim and vague in the distance, like some
such a place as this," said he. "It's enough to scare any man.
The man looked surprised and a little embarrassed. "Why, there's
the helmet fell from his head, and they could see that he had golden
convex lens.
I'll call them back again to comfort me.--
"Just as you wish."
were he I would bear no coles," etc. Dyce cites Cotgrave, _Fr. Dict._:
Romeo, _bon jour_! there's a French salutation
hard task. If he does not succeed he will forfeit his life."
And turns it to exile; there art thou happy.
Should in the farthest east begin to draw
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
hiding-place for the creature. Here he kennelled it and waited
"Before he takes revenge on me," thought he to himself, "I must dig a
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
attendants in the form of a cock, a hen, and a brindled cow. The spell
children!
queerest thing that ever happened to me."
way."
18.  Bar-shot.
give her as she is so naughty, and has a wicked envious heart, that
I have more care to stay than will to go;
The larger birds held out longer, but none could equal the eagle, who
"Come home, then," said the youth, and led her home and tied her up in
so far as she could without implicating her husband, and again
Shame come to Romeo!
83. _Reeky._ Reeking with foul vapours, or simply = foul, as if soiled
At last the King appointed him court-tailor.
After this the three fugitives came to a farmyard, where the Cock was
There is a Westminster scholar, and he appears to be explaining the
may enable our friend to recover not only from his shattered
index entries--as somewhat of a protest against others who have copied
strain and was the very image, they tell me, of the family
Instantly it was covered with food, so good that the host could never
to view.  It has been supposed to be a standard, from which the Romans,
The third brother had apprenticed himself to a turner, and as that is
understood, he said, that I was becoming attached to her, but
nicely and quietly. Do not run off the path, or you may fall and break
To his celestial consort us unite,
FRIAR LAURENCE, }
incidentally truthful piece of biography of Stapleton's. I was
where the Tree of Life stands, and have brought you the apple."
were seven of them running behind Dunderhead and the Goose.
days of chivalry, the court and nobility held their gallant tilts and
And stole into the covert of the wood;
"But that is the very thing which you have so often cautioned me
choleric. His passion is for the British law, and he has spent a
of the huntsmen rang through the trees, and the Roe heard all, and was
And this same needy man must sell it me!
give me what you promised."
murdered--the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast
But, in spite of these things, it was a gay and magnificent revel.  The
of S._ ii. 1. 180: "If she deny to wed," etc. _Makes dainty_ = affects
"God bless you, sir, and thank you from my heart! It would have
live. I am no Flounder really, but an enchanted Prince. What good will
thrust his maids to the wall.
She had no peace and rest until she set out secretly, and went forth
I have only one other incident to record upon this tempestuous
he cried, "Where shall I go? where shall I go?" He retired into a
your own cigarettes. Have no hesitation in lighting one."
sent away one after the other, and made fun of them as well.
"Good-night, sir, and thank you!"
Ma! Ma!_"
_Sampson._ My naked weapon is out; quarrel, I                     30
this Barrymore, anyhow?"
229. _I will be brief_, etc. Johnson and Malone criticise S. for
quickly out again, but saw that it was quite gilded. And whatsoever
Creator, as they chant the hundredth psalm on the entrance of the
warder, no doubt," said he. "The moor has been thick with them
hill. We ran and ran until we were completely blown, but the
She dived down with her twelve young ones. And in five minutes she was
and her husband propose to marry Juliet to Paris.
Flounder, for I will be King."
indignation will run through the country. Nothing would induce me
killed my poor wife had he been taken again."
him, and which he decides to wear, though it is an ugly one. On the
the turrets were more modern wings of black granite. A dull light
[Illustration]
"auburn." In _T.G. of V._ iv. 4. 194, the folio has "Her haire is
the room, and Haensel threw one handful after another out of his pocket
120. _Drybeat._ See on iii. 1. 81 above. For _have at you_, cf. i. 1. 64
There was once a man who understood all kinds of arts. He served
While she went to visit a friend.
180:--
assistance."
cough--"
start the better, as the fellow may put out his light and be
did wherever he went, who was the richest and also the poorest girl in
Barrymore and his wife. To him it may have been an unmitigated
animal. "There is no smell which might have interfered with his
Which shall be needful for your entertainment."
Then the girl went up-stairs, shook the feather-beds, and laid clean
between brother and sister, for Stapleton was neutral tinted,
lights lights by day;" the folios, "We wast our lights in vaine, lights,
three days for horses and cattle of all kinds, which make the place very
BIRD-FOUND
back, and go with it to the King.
Again the Fox was sitting outside the wood, and begged for his life,
laid in the same grave.
[Illustration]
The new London Bridge is built from a design of the late John Rennie,
_Juliet._ Then, window, let day in, and let life out.             41
With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
the "star-cross'd" love of those "poor sacrifices of their enmity." They
And then I ran away to call the watch.
went away.
_Paris._ Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
themselves, but in their stars--in their _fate_ as the offspring of
_Friar Laurence_: ii. 3(72), 6(18); iii. 3(87); iv. 1(56), 5(25); v.
the cold regions of Russia, Poland, and America, but also a camel from
12. _His._ Its; as often. _Its_ was just coming into use when S. wrote.
you cannot have!"
45.  The Knife-grinder.
"'_Alas, Falada, hanging there!_'
Among the graves I leapt about,
He took him home, and the two children grew up together. The one he had
bishop of Paris in the 13th century" (Douce).
It was undoubtedly from these English sources, and chiefly from the poem
i. 1. 3, ii. 3. 4, etc.
out the door. Then the Little Men said to each other, "What shall we
Set thyself!_"
the surface of the water parted, and the head of the huntsman arose.
For so he said he would. I hear him near.--      [_Music within._
57. _I._ The repetition of the pronoun at the end of the sentence is
Else, when he's found, that hour is his last.
reward, the Golden Bird.
_Capulet_: i. 1(3), 2(33), 5(56); iii. 4(31), 5(63); iv. 2(26), 4(19),
The boy was called Conrad, and the true Bride had to help him to tend
King's Son, who gave her the golden shoe.
precious.  You are rich, respected, admired, beloved; you are happy, as
And now he had to use his own legs, and when he had walked a long way,
Balthasar "presently took post" (v. 1. 21) to tell the news to Romeo at
63. _Art thou drawn?_ Cf. _Temp._ ii. 1. 308: "Why are you drawn?"
Hans comes to Grethel. "Good day, Grethel."
of young folks; and, as Tom staid out late at night, he was met on coming
"You have arms, I suppose?"
have a child, and he grows big, and has to draw beer here, the pickaxe
laid it on her arm and nursed it. Then she shook up its pillow, laid
"Our case becomes rounded off, and difficulty after difficulty
9. _The earth_, etc. Cf. Milton, _P.L._ ii. 911: "The womb of nature,
nearer to our supreme adventure.
[Illustration: THE MAIDEN SAID, "I WILL BE TRUE TO YOU, YOUR LIFE LONG"]
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
"Is there no such thing as a gentleman?" she gasped.
want, then?"
But now how am I to earn my bread?"
moor.
4.  An anchove, for hooking men off their horses.
the world, thought all the time that the little sister had been torn to
no, we will preserve them upon our list of suspects. Then there
when Dr. Mortimer was shown up, followed by the young baronet.
if she does not come, everything in the kingdom shall be ruined, and
rushing movement of this group in the direction of the intruder, who at
away and lie down to sleep. I will do the work for you."
it?"
shoe. It was found at the soldier's, and the soldier himself, who at
stage in Shakespeare's time was a naked room with a blanket for a
_Capulet._ Well, he may chance to do some good on her;
else.
And let mischance be slave to patience.--
do already," said he. "The truth is that the gentleman told me
"And this man of simple tastes would be the heir to Sir Charles's
vie with each other in doing honour to the guiltless victims of their
talks very differently in iii. 5 below.
knocked softly at the window.
and came to a house wherein lived a Witch.
Thou hast drunk with us,
and she wore a great golden crown that was three yards high, and set
was inclined to go.
the winter, Snow-White lit the fire and hung the kettle on the hook.
etc.
wrapped herself in it, picked up the garnets and stones, and wished
she would rather have been a thousand fathoms below ground.
passenger runs against the ladder and throws them down.  But one of their
_Juliet._ Hie to high fortune!--Honest nurse, farewell.
rooms. My wife and I will be happy, Sir Henry, to stay with you
Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
Then, full of anger, the King went down to the cook, scolded him and
am thirsty. If I knew of a little brook I would go and take a drink.
"And so was I at first. But there was no getting out of it."
of us. He is an elderly man, red-faced, white-haired, and
man's daughter was beautiful and lovable, and her own daughter ugly and
Uncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now
At length, when it grew dark, she saw the light and came to the house
prayers of their friends, nor the menaces of the Prince, nor even time
My lord and you were then at Mantua,--
time to answer, Baskerville seized me by the hand and wrung it
below).
garland of such common flowers? Go quickly, and get another, and
fell over into the oven and was miserably burnt to death.
gazed when the youngest entered. It was just as if the sun were rising!
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again,
"Yes, I think that we should be more useful there at the present
"His wife?"
black granite and bared ribs of rafters, but facing it was a new
indigo, &c &c.
as in the first scene, and eleven other scenes, of the present play. In
_1 Musician._ Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
upon.
enchanted Prince, so I let him go again."
inclined to think that Stapleton's career of crime has been by no
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
With slaunders whelpes."
1590:--
lighting the lamps on the east side of Blackfriars' Bridge, was, by a
FORTH]
Chapter 4.
well," etc.
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe;
the water, I will change your little hut into a splendid castle."
"_Looking-Glass, Looking-Glass, on the wall,
The lady sprang from her chair.
When I reached Coombe Tracey I told Perkins to put up the horses,
If I carried them with me, or left them behind.
and rich Jew, to reflect on this; and to endeavour, with all their
invisible, and the trees were standing out of a swirl of white
Mother Holle was soon tired of this, and gave her notice to leave.
Her illustrations for Grimm are particularly harmonious in color,
Mantua, less than twenty-five miles distant. He arrives before evening
Shall be the label to another deed,
and jewels, and even the golden crown which I am wearing."
securities. The total value of the estate was close on to a
an idea out of your mind," said he. "Your blood would be upon my
etc.
cock-shut time," etc. As Juliet is fourteen, Lady Capulet would be about
When the eyes of the Prince Prospero fell upon this spectral image
marriage (ii. 6. 9 fol.):--
Nurse!--What should she do here?
3. _Phaethon._ For other allusions to the ambitious youth, see _T.G. of
= the untangling of which.
containing many bags of saltpetre: this soon exploded, and the wind
particular, actual tower, since all that follows is purely imaginary;"
the singular, namely, where the sense is collective, as in _overthrows_
assume a new aspect. The fond, impatient, timid girl puts on the wife
and Edison right here in front of the hall door."
a finer mingling of exquisite poetry with keen and sparkling wit. Its
had Sir John Morland for trespass because he shot in his own
_Romeo._ Not mad, but bound more than a madman is;
9:--
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?                                60
doubt, for example, that the Fernworthy people will burn me in
"I can well remember driving up to his house in the evening some
Follow me, follow me, fast as you may._"
[Reads] _'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
that he intends to prosecute Dr. Mortimer for opening a grave
water-splasher, is it you?" said she; "I am weeping for my golden ball,
"The Montresors," I replied, "were a great and numerous family."
[Picture: St. Paul's Cathedral]
the sand at his feet. He listened, and heard an Ant-King complain, "Why
While she was sitting there, she thought of the egg which the Moon had
_Paris._ I do defy thy conjurations
They made their way to the place where the light was, and soon saw
which he will run. That was all which I intended to convey.
Whose violent property fordoes itself."
and _T. of S._ iv. 1. 193: "My falcon now is sharp and passing empty."
What further woe conspires against mine age?
connection with the Stapletons can be traced for several years,
She slept quietly till midnight, and then there was such a noise in the
things," said the butler.
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
_T. of S._ iv. 3. 23.
He loaded his gun, and shot so cleverly, that he shot the horse's
_Tybalt._ Romeo, the hate I bear thee can afford
says supreme in subtlety of feeling and expression, where all is
man of darkness? In the evening I put on my waterproof and I
this morning which wants more thinking out than I am able to give
skin-clad, hairy man crawl out from the low door fitting a
"About sending you. It's an ugly business, Watson, an ugly
[Illustration]
"perdona-mi's" (Italian, suggested by the "pardona-mees" of the 4th and
answered, "Oh, no, she is much too dirty, she cannot show herself!"
had a proud, finely cut face, so regular that it might have
before! When the gray mask fell off, her golden hair broke forth like
their time till they go to bed again.  Betty is obliged to get up as soon
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
castle which stood in the midst of a forest. It lay concealed, and the
She ran to see who was outside, but when she opened the door, there sat
and it stopped cooking.
of bread. And the bread cried:
_Benvolio._ By my head, here come the Capulets.
yesterday that I learned how matters stood. But in any case I
he was not in the mood for fresh adventures. He had not seen this
that of a man or a woman. One towel passed round the throat and
It was in vain that Fortunato, uplifting his dull torch, endeavoured to
broken by the jagged and sinister hills.
off here than at home, still she had a longing to be there.
worrying that animal, till it is become quite furious, and now you must
"On the second floor?"
quibbles that a nature rendered timid by stinted intercourse with her
than he has done."
_Sampson._ Draw, if you be men.--Gregory, remember
it get its food, where did it come from, how was it that no one
So she did the Old Woman's bidding, placed herself at the window and
the school which had begun well sank from disrepute into infamy.
"Whichever it is, my answer is fixed. There is no devil in hell,
supplied.
So the child went into the forest, and an Old Woman met her, who knew
each of them certainly had brought a horse with him. But one of them
Mantua, but an hour has hardly elapsed since he started for that city;
v. 3. 159, etc.
has come. If you speak but one single word, all will be over."
"We'll dine in the great room, but let the music
toadstool, to disfigure one's face? Was it not enough to clip off the
[Illustration]
When this was done, the old woman took her daughter, put a nightcap on
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
"The world is full of obvious things which nobody by any chance
25. _The garish sun._ Johnson remarks: "Milton had this speech in his
His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.            [_Retires._
keeper.  And as for the poor dogs, they must be very tired before their
A thing like death to chide away this shame
By all the cunning artists of the world,
beginning, as they said, at _Pudding Lane_, and ending at _Pie Corner_,
But who should come in but _the Wolf_!
"No, sir."
scarcely breathe."
"I bring nothing, but would have something given me."
In St. Martin's le Grand.  The front of this fine building is 380 feet
on one of the beds, and his white beard reached down to his feet. The
with his yard and the tailor with his last, the                   40
after Benvolio, but on a different part of the stage. The eyes of the
voyage which had been recommended for the restoration of his
"I said nothing but:
_Prince._ We still have known thee for a holy man.--
galloping across the moor, and the black mare, dabbled with
eds., and White doubts whether it belongs to the sober Benvolio; but he
I sell thee poison, thou hast sold me none.
befallen him, and what kind of a promise he had given to the Nix. "Of
have been used only to mean one who ran away, and that _runagate_, which
Spare not for cost.
has brought my narrative up to the eighteenth of October, a time
the hate between the rival houses, yet affects him more, inasmuch as his
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
_Temp._ v. 1. 4. etc.
_Benvolio._ In love?
"What was the use?"
"_Flounder, Flounder in the sea,
Then came a blast of wind and carried off Conrad's hat, so that he had
talking about the suitors in a familiar and playful way; but in the
will suggest anything which I may have forgotten.
woman, and told her of the mishap.
but that of your master. I have come here with no object except
at her without secret horror.
The third quarto (1609) was a reprint of the second, from which it
Of the Friar the poet says:--
Soon afterward the false Bride said to the young King, "Dearest
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
hall in Capulet's house for the next scene. When he summons the Nurse to
suppose that by Saturday all might be ready?"
Then full of anger he went into the forest, and saw a man standing
The gait of my friend was unsteady, and the bells upon his cap jingled
Immediately the head and the whole body of the man rose into the air,
_Romeo._ Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
had gone once more, Ash-Maiden went to the hazel-tree, and said:
not confine himself to grinding knives only, but when wanting a job, he
"You go, Ash-Maiden!" said she; "you are dusty and dirty, and would go
"It's a very rare bird--practically extinct--in England now, but
iii. 1. 14: "To-night we hold a solemn supper, sir;" _T. of S._ iii. 2.
"By no means. You could not make a greater mistake. If they are
arm. And when she stood on high and the fire was just going to be
Here in this city visiting the sick,
by.  It is like a large floating house, with convenient apartments,
1688.
Next day when they were driving the geese out through the dark gateway,
her hair as radiant as sunbeams. When she cried, not tears fell from
"And the hound?"
recovered his vigor, he thanked the Old Woman for her present, and set
sat there in care and sorrow, not knowing what to do.
_Friar Laurence._ So smile the heavens upon this holy act
tree, a young Knight came up. "Quick, Two-Eyes," cried the two sisters,
_All's Well_, iii. 5. 43: "If you will tarry, holy pilgrim"
They showed him the Gold-Child, who, however, still wore his bear-skins.
cowardly, and it is no wonder to see you running away in such a dreadful
PROLOGUE
Set thyself!_"
8. _Behoveful._ Befitting; used by S. nowhere else.
So Romeo hath expected Juliet,
that when I examined the paper upon which the printed words were
"I must not wear it otherwise," said he, "for if I set my hat straight,
carrying the dead body to the grave richly dressed and with the face
"Nothing," she replied, "I was only thinking of Maid Maleen."
_Enter_ MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, Page, _and_ Servants
And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
He again said, "I cannot."
he would find the old gentleman waiting. The dog, incited by its
Hop hither and thither,
"What! you don't mean to say--?"
"And where did he say that he lived?"
devoured little children. Hastily she ran away, and ran to the Moon,
unable to trace cut sheet of _Times_. CARTWRIGHT.
in the Gold-Ass, and said to his brother, "Now, dear Brother, speak to
The fourth, "Who has been eating my vegetables?"
"I bring nothing. I want something given me."
was good enough for him, and the dearer the better, for he had always a
13. _Confounds._ Destroys; as often. Cf. _Macb._ ii. 2. 12, iv. 1. 54,
It was there that he kept his hound and there also he had made
black as an ebony statue on that shining background, I saw the
_Romeo._ And we mean well in going to this mask;
and he says, 'Thus from my lips, by thine, my sin is purg'd,' and does
he held an old and dusty boot in one of his hands. So furious was
iii. 5. 19 below, is the familiar poetic grey of the early morning
woman ate part of it, she could resist no longer, and stretched out her
conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a real hound,
WILLIAM J. ROLFE, LITT.D.
In his reply the Friar asks:--
Dr. Mortimer drew a folded newspaper out of his pocket.
A sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor. Crouching
supernatural?"
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
"Are you armed, Lestrade?"
The huntsman had compassion on the poor old creature, felt in his
the marks?"
violence were to be discovered upon Sir Charles's person,
that he really did see something of the kind upon that last night
morning."
the bottle; then your Grandmother will get nothing! When you go into
If any of my little readers wish to be as healthy and merry as Betty the
27. _Sitting in the sun_, etc. Cf. Dame Quickly's circumstantial
its back.  In Turkey, Arabia, and Persia, the camel is a most useful
chamber, or court-room, which is ornamented with a capital collection of
"I can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man has
little sister may be here, and then we shall be free."
theorizing."
could not find her father's kingdom again. After she had wandered about
But the venerable celibate speaks for himself and in keeping with the
eyes with it. Immediately was fulfilled what the man on the gallows had
plans to any other person until the instant of their fulfilment.
The Queen was horror-struck, and offered the Little Man all the riches
_Friar John._ I could not send it,--here it is again,--
sure that as a conscientious detective my first duty is not to
peace, so that after a couple of days she began to ask again how it had
heart. Sometimes I wonder if she has a guilty memory which haunts
Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
takes her in charge. That seems to be Romeo's thought here; he gives up
Or primrose, with its pucker'd leaf
SCENE II.--1. _Gallop apace_, etc. Malone remarks that S. probably
that he had lost his way. He sought a way out, but could find none.
8 and 9.  The swords of justice, spiritual and temporal.
about alone I might have had a more lively evening, for I had a
Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
entertaining and instructive.
Every good hap to you that chances here.
"You'll be surprised to hear that his food is taken to him by a
and the Glass answered:
And a plate was there, and a knife and fork beside it, and dishes with
Then the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers, broke like a
"Yes, sir, my name was Selden, and he is my younger brother. We
were sitting at table began to feel quite warm, and they thought the
baronet, but in the instant during which I had turned to grasp
_Enter_ LADY CAPULET
garden and yard are little. The Flounder might just as well have given
She came at last--and richly, gaily clad,
74.  The Charity Children.
was in it, and cried out, "Alas! poor Crab!"
spectacle which the beast presented, nor could we predict the fog
But I will watch you from such watching now.
small wooden pipe into one of the large ones underground, {75} that the
hast quarrelled with a man for coughing in the street,
get out.
Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but ay,
_nouveaux riches_ it is refreshing to find a case where the
bulbous-headed, of the sort which is known as a "Penang lawyer."
The beggar man led her out by the hand, and she was obliged to go away
lest her share in these events should be discovered, counsels her to
Many a year we plough'd the main:
farther, and fell back to the ground.
feel all my resolution return. Romeo! She goes to meet him, and what
love of personal cleanliness which was one of his
Mortimer.
"No, by thunder; we have come out to get our man, and we will do
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
for Amontillado, and I have my doubts."
the green--through the green to the orange--through this again to the
children had gone away. She had crept after them, as Witches do creep,
be much more modern than the central part of the house, and the
_Juliet._ My ears have yet not drunk a hundred words
pieces of curious old plate.  The crown worn by the king when he goes in
begins, the dramatist must dismiss Mercutio from the stage, as he does
in doing it. I think that if we put something over his face he
she found that the seventh one was right, so she remained in it, said a
been talking at cross purposes," said she.
common saddle of wood and leather, and not the golden one, which hangs
He's both their parent, and he is their grave."
ROMEO, son to Montague.
But thou shalt lye as she that dyeth in a traunce:
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
sight of him yet. The farmers about here don't like it, sir, and
Well said, my hearts!--You are a princox; go!
"Do you think a woman could go alone at that hour to a bachelor's
corruption of _good e'en_, or _good evening_. _God gi' good-den_ in the
once I was.  You are a man to be missed.  For me it is no matter.  We
picked up all the millet-seeds and gathered them into the sacks.
combining the stories of the caskets and the pound of flesh in _The
illuminated, without the aid of tallow, oil, or cotton.
about him? What did Selden say? Did he find out where he hid, or
Barrymore hesitated for a moment, as if he regretted his outburst
of her house and called him, wishing to entrap him also.
When Haensel and Grethel came into her neighborhood, she laughed
out. The shoemaker, who had a heart of stone, put out his right eye
Afore me, it is so very late, that we
When he had looked about the world for some time, he thought, "You
At this horrible din, the robbers sprang up, thinking no otherwise
eyes, are no better than common folk. You do not belong to us!"
And surely 'tis fair that my labour should earn,
"Here I am quite alone and deserted, how shall I obtain a horse now?"
"Then a man they employ
General Comments on the Play                              17
which I took to be a large black calf passing at the head of the
must come upon the right."
secure from robberies, than the open wharfs by the sides of the river
Who, even in pure and vestal modesty,
the mother took her spectacles and read aloud out of a large book. The
and instantly the Cudgel sprang out, and dusted the coat or jacket of
"a man of men
and let him in."
"There," he thought, "I can surely be town-musician."
panes were purple.  The third was green throughout, and so were the
"That is one of the points upon which your own researches have
flute came into the combination, it was a _broken consort_, or _broken
_Romeo._ Well, in that hit you miss. She'll not be hit
There also they were ordered to go away, but at last the cook said that
[Picture: Highgate Tunnel]
"He being the heir?"
want to have a rich one. So he said, "She shall be my wife who is the
the _M.N.D._ (lines 6 and 158), _obscure_ and _obscure_, _pursue_ and
124. _As that_, etc. As to that heart, etc.
Here comes the old man with his flowers to sell,
RAPUNZEL                                                          24
birds were sitting in the branches above. They lacked nothing but the
monster had swallowed them whole.
Little Snow-White looked out, and said, "Go away. I cannot let any one
Queen, and they lived for a long time happily together. The Roe was
the woman's wares because she was good-looking, and they paid her what
We had a pleasant luncheon in which little was said of the
Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
to her.
fame and could not resist the temptation to publish the "youthfull
and rustling in the night had been. On this the page told all; that he
confidence in your nerve and courage I would not suggest it, but
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
VI._ i. 1. 46: "The proudest he;" _Id._ ii. 2. 97: "Or any he the
36. _Rushes._ Before the introduction of carpets floors were strewn with
We shall be much unfurnish'd for this time.                       10
sight. Kill her."
growth of ivy which covered (and still covers) the south
crossings and lanes, to light passengers through them.  They deserve the
The Frog answered, "I do not care for your clothes, your pearls and
his pursuer.  There was a sharp cry--and the dagger dropped gleaming
When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
compelled to abandon this method and to trust once more to my
birds away (as in _Lear_, iv. 6. 88: "That fellow handles his bow like a
Now, it came to pass that a poor soldier, who had a wound, and could
"It only remains to indicate the part which she had played
31. _Spite._ Cf. i. 5. 64 above.
many men--goose and apple-sauce." Cf. the allusions to mutton and capers
"Well, of course, that is possible also. I am very much indebted
used then to excite in the practical man.
compelled to swear by the clear sky above her, that she would not say
earth. I am Mother Holle."
_Paris._ Thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report.
"The circumstances connected with the death of Sir Charles
4(114), 5(147); Chorus (14); ii. 1(42), 2(190), 3(94), 4(233), 5(80),
poem:--
O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
_cousin_ was often = kinsman. See on i. 5. 32 above.
being, for I have sworn not to do so by the heaven which is above me.
gleams from these cavern walls."
them in the little pocket of his coat as he could possibly get in.
distant baying of a hound. It is incredible, impossible, that it
house to house, begging for money to make a bonfire and a feast.  In many
to think, but that is the logical outcome of my convictions. Have
them begin.
sobbing bitterly, and since then I have more than once observed
only the mercy of God which has snatched him from the scaffold;
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
[Picture: The Sedan Chair]
_Capulet._ As rich shall Romeo by his lady lie,
I thank you, honest gentlemen; good night.--
_1 Musician._ An you re us and fa us, you note
"My inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait
Take all myself.
in the other direction. I should then at my leisure have hired a
_Rich. III._ i. 1. 45: "This conduct to convey me to the Tower," etc.
and into the street. Dr. Mortimer and Baskerville were still
To turn your households' rancour to pure love,"--
and behold, there was a stately royal garment in it! But when the Bride
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--
"I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire;
house, and asked if it was not yet time for her to give him his reward.
practical mind. I can still remember your complete indifference
"If a stream of water does not rise in my courtyard by to-morrow as
yes, and laid her hand in his.
knows you are here?"
seeing him 'fancy-sick and pale of cheer,' for love of a cold beauty."
were employed, the consort was called _whole_, but if virginal, lute, or
soon found that we had no chance of overtaking him. We saw him
{14}  Here Ann Boleyn, and many other illustrious persons, languished out
dropped on the horses' manes, thereby plaiting them in inextricable
In the evening, when the snowflakes fell, the mother said, "Go,
"Let Holmes know all about it at once. It will give him the clue
_Nurse._ By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself
promised to marry each other, and their greatest happiness was being
and began to wash herself. When she had finished, she dipped the skin
and I will care for it like a mother."
51. _Both our remedies._ The healing of both of us. Cf. _A.W._ i. 3.
the windmills, not a breath of air is stirring," and he went onward
given her. She opened it, and there came out a clucking hen with twelve
And with my child my joys are buried.                             60
the musicians is transposed to i. 5. 17 above.
110. _In thy best robes_, etc. The Italian custom here alluded to, of
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
A flush of vexation passed over her expressive face. "We have
when Sir Henry had gone to his room, that I was able to follow
there and looked at nothing but her work.
"Run away, then, you poor child." "The wild beasts will soon have
An _unmanned_ hawk was one not sufficiently trained to know the voice of
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness,
safety when I heard cries upon the moor. By the way"--his eyes
the game is at the fairest; and Romeo also alludes to this.
to it and gave a cry of satisfaction.
own subject finds that a week or two of the courts will drive it
fonder of the ugly and lazy one. Every day, the other, poor girl, had
She did so, saying, "Now, my Dearest, drink to me."
[Illustration]
Shake, quoth the dove-house; 'twas no need, I trow,
silent company. We talked little, and I for one was glad when the
clearer and in some ways they have become more complicated. But I
23. _Keep no great ado._ Elsewhere in S. the phrase is, as now, _make
_Apothecary_: v. 1(7). Whole no. 7.
sisters heard that they too were to appear among the number, they were
of black silk, and drawing a _roquelaire_ closely about my person, I
one sole, and silly, contemptible" (Schmidt). Steevens gives several
the runner, and said to him, "Now be nimble, and help us to win."
paused, and holding the flambeaux over the mason-work, threw a few
good advice also, that have not made use of any of them.  Indeed,
And as Ash-Maiden wept at this, the mother said, "If you can pick two
"That will break your neck for you!" cried the Bride, and flew into a
there ought to be none."
was celebrated with great magnificence. They lived happily together,
"I did not positively say so."
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
twice shook his head in strong dissent. I stood among the rocks
Then the maiden carried the dishes to the mother and was delighted, and
and the Bird, and went home to their father. "Here we bring you not
_Sampson._ I mean, an we be in choler we'll draw.
we stooped. Holmes laid his hand upon him and held it up again
lighted in the daytime" (Steevens); hence applied to superfluous actions
upon the rocks if you will."
"No," said the Night Wind, "I have seen none, but I will ask the three
"With designs upon the succession."
gone? They must be followed instantly and brought back."
twice in a single word and has run dry three times in a short
compare), _Fol._ (following), _Id._ (_idem_, the same), and _Prol._
The next time, when she again bore a beautiful boy, the false old
etc.
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
Elizabeth was so pleased with the building, that she dignified it with
differences between the first and second quartos. Among the many new
_Nurse._ What's this? what's this?
_Romeo._ I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
When it was evening, and the huntsman did not return home, his wife
Her face fell, however, when she saw that I was a stranger, and
"They say it is the cry of the Hound of the Baskervilles."
lived free and would die free, and anxiously flying hither and thither,
meaning. The _grey_, as in _M.N.D._ iii. 2. 419, _J.C._ ii. 1. 103, and
and the maiden from the Golden Castle."
in the night, of the tear-stained face of Mrs. Barrymore, of the
"With Grethel."
for myself. Had I been with Sir Henry and you it is confident
forms. Simpleton married the youngest and sweetest Princess, and after
Wills not as I'd have her will._"
"I have already told you that your reports reached me rapidly,
the most delicate meats, and as many of them as you may desire."
horse? It will be a fine one!"
Sir Henry opened his eyes. "How was that?"
clock-case."
possible, however, that lines 30-32 refer to a mask that is handed to
am Doctor Knowall,' and have that nailed up above your house-door."
"Just a little," said Holmes. "I think, Dr. Mortimer, you would
of course; and the merriment arises from the awkward and affected
gate?"
I could see as he looked down that he was repressing some
"_Oh, shake me! Shake me!
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
out till they had gone. Juliet would appear on the 'upper stage' [the
paved than the City of London.  Indeed, every year seems to add
Then was there great joy. But the Horse would not eat, the Bird would
SCENE II. _Capulet's Orchard_
when she carried it to her mouth. The youngest was alarmed at this, but
was clearly already in his mind, though he may not have been
Grethel, however, ran as quick as lightning to Haensel, opened his
present. What was she now to do? She wished to rescue her brothers, and
To County Paris; then comes she to me,
"I never went."
Halliwell-Phillipps quotes Withals, _Little Dictionarie for Children_,
28.  The East India House.
_Nurse._ May not one speak?
"No, no, surely not!"
The earliest edition of _Romeo and Juliet_, so far as we know, was a
blades_ of Toledo were famous for their quality.
near, all the young men likely to marry. They were marshalled in a row
thrust forward, his face peering into the darkness.
The tailor thought, "It gets worse and worse! No one can endure that!"
where they are to be landed.
no answer followed. The surface of the water remained calm, only the
"There is Sir Charles's death."
thin rain began to fall. The light still burned steadily in
and suffer what one must."
full of all kinds of wild animals. One day he sent out a huntsman to
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,                    70
Stapletons. With a bitter curse I shook my fist at it as I gazed.
certainly give us that."
argument lately set foorth on stage with more commendation then I can
iv. 5. 124 below: "Then music with her silver sound," etc. The figure is
99. _Haviour._ Not "'haviour," as often printed. It is found in North's
now, which gives me one more strong card which I can play in due
207. _Old age._ A slip which, strangely enough, no editor or
"Fill the cup, and let it come;
that you are away from your charge rather long? Your place should
_distracted_ (as in _Temp._ v. i. 12, _Macb._ ii. 3. 110, etc.) or
"A calf."
gather no fruit from it, every one will stand still and look at it, and
trisyllable, as in _Macb._ i. 5. 40.
"Running from what?"
"Certainly, though I cannot guarantee that I carry all the facts
lying upon the ground. She breathed no longer and was dead. They lifted
90. _A broad goose._ No satisfactory explanation of this quibble has
would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a
"What did Grethel give you?"
investigator needs facts and not legends or rumours. It has not
Let me see, then, what thereat is and this mystery explore--
"No, no, I am never dull," said she quickly.
is hanging in a wooden cage. Close by, there stands an empty gold cage
sitting on the mouth which had eaten honey; and thus the King's Son
That frosen mountayne yse was neuer halfe so cold
courtyard sprang like a cannon ball into the air, and over the castle.
Could pick no meaning from their parting looks,
King, and said, "Lord King, the tailor has not given up his arrogance.
it stands to reason that such legislation must in the long run
Grand-dukes, then the Princes, the Earls, the Barons, and the gentry.
ii. 1. 103:--
the wind.
and when we sank into it it was as if some malignant hand was
Baskerville mystery. I had waited patiently for the opportunity
"If you insist upon it."
An she agree, within her scope of choice
been yours."
One day, her Mother said to her, "Come, Little Red-Cap, here is a piece
circuit of the face, and the hour was to be stricken, there came from
After the above was printed, Dr. Furnivall called Mr. Daniel's attention
Give me the light. Upon thy life, I charge thee,
find yourself in a pretty bad position if you try to hide
more, for his own affairs are considerably involved. Whatever she
cast of your skull, sir, until the original is available, would
thinks it may be a misprint for "left," as Capulet (i. 2. 14) speaks as
bedroom, took a small knife and cut her finger with it until it bled.
petulance of age--her subserviency, her secrecy, and her total want of
countryside depends upon his presence. All the good work which
with buckets and bale out the water. When they could see the bottom,
of the Witch, hastily clutched a handful of rampion, and took it to
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.--
himself on the soldier's mercy, and begged merely to be allowed to
surprised when I heard you two gentlemen come back this morning
Not far from the bridge, in old Palace Yard, stands Westminster Hall.
Chapter 3  The Problem
"Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound!"
_Romeo._ Stay, fellow; I can read.
it, there stood twelve horses,--such horses, so bright and shining,
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger                 30
enable them to become respectable in this world, and tend to make them
Henry Baskerville with you."
"I have not come to any conclusion."
"Yes, we should have a full day today," he remarked, and he
Marcini's for a little dinner on the way?"
_1 Musician._ Then will I give you the
the maiden, her father and brothers being from home, as he
130. _Come hither, nurse_, etc. Cf. Brooke:--
"That's lucky for him--in fact, it's lucky for all of you, since
THE TWO TRAVELERS                                                213
accidents while engaged in their dangerous occupation.  In the winter,
151. _Madam!_ This forms no part of the verse, and might well enough be
O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell,                          80
will be your wife, and be true to you your whole life long."
an honest woman of her word."
But a poor man was sitting upon the road, with whom the youth changed
seeking flowers and catching butterflies. But Snow-White sat at home
150. _Minion._ Originally = favourite, darling (as in _Temp._ iv. 1. 98,
When he was satisfied, he said, "Now I will get to work."
(November 6) to his sister Augusta: "I brought away four small pieces
entirely rewritten." A marked instance of this rewriting--the only one
_Enter_ Chorus
him by the hand and said, "Come in."
Snow-White was very sorry for his going away. And as she unbolted the
233. _Ancient damnation._ The abstract for the concrete, explained by
I fear it is; and yet, methinks, it should not,
Now it happened that he had to speak to the King, and in order to make
unheard-of rejoicing. They will gladly give you the Golden Horse, and
Haensel and Grethel gathered brushwood together, as high as a little
9. _Night's candles_, etc. Cf. _Macb._ ii. 1. 5.: "Their candles are all
Why should you fall into so deep an O?                            90
"Ah," answered he, "let mercy take the place of justice! I had to do it
"Exactly. I have wired to get his name and address from the
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
"We must try our last chance, and see if we can break through the wall."
extends the desolate, lifeless moor. This, then, is the stage
_III._ iii. 2. 78: "I do not like these several councils, I;" _T.A._ v.
To fyll the houngry eyes of those that curiously beholde:
was some distance away. The baronet's nerves were still quivering
32. _Which on more view_, etc. A perplexing line for which many
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
people. Barrymore's only indication had been that the stranger
"_Who drinks of me, a Roebuck be!
thought that their dear father was coming to them, and full of joy,
recapture by screaming wildly for help. By his cries he must have
"They were tan boots and had never been varnished. That was why I
magnificent than any she had yet had, and the slippers were golden.
Frenchmen, Spaniards, Russians, Turks, Americans, and Jews.  How intent
waiting-maid as a riddle, what a person deserved who had behaved in
_Lady Capulet._ Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!  20
SCENE I. _Mantua. A Street_
a town at peace, having streets, and a variety of buildings.  When the
unexpected thing. We had risen from our rocks and were turning to
something to enable her to earn an honest living. Stapleton did
must seek out your father; if you go to him with the Gold-Ass, he will
Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
your coming back alive. It is only by remembering certain complex
"We will not leave each other," Rose-Red answered, "Never so long as we
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair,                  180
45. _A beggarly account_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
Maynteined by the heauenly fates, and by the townish toyle.
manservant at Merripit House, whose name was Anthony. His
On her arrival, she was kindly received and led into the castle. When
_Rich. III._ iii. 4. 86.
the King was out hunting; so the old Witch took the form of the
water and sank down. In a short time he came swimming up again with
side. I waited until he had passed out of sight and then I
sitting there by the shore, pluming herself with her beak. She knew him
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.--
"Nothing of much importance, Mr. Holmes. Only a joke, as like as
Gentlemen, good den; a word with one of you.
She could have run and waddled all about.--
was welcomed by both her and the sister.
must, but remember that our Lord God does not always look on passively,
Let's see for means.--O mischief, thou art swift
through the silence of the night, a long, deep mutter, then a
Delightes, 1584_:--
churl, makes waste in niggarding."
We stumbled slowly along in the darkness, with the black loom of
quick and supple as my own. He got home upon me very prettily
She was obedient, went thither and cut a hole in the ice. And while she
_Romeo._ Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor.
this room!" but she still looked after him as long as she could see the
11. _Mouse-hunt._ A woman-hunter. For _mouse_ as a term of endearment,
Then her mother was still more enraged, and thought of nothing but
which the baronet hailed me as a companion.
as had been collected.
Ray's proverbs is "A good candle-holder proves a good gamester"
postmaster testily. "Didn't he get the telegram? If there is any
boats, and in every boat sat a handsome Prince, all of whom were
multitude of animals of all kinds, birds, beasts, fishes, shells,
At dinner-time, therefore, the girl took out the food, but the lentils
the world."
large boys from different parts of the parish; and it frequently
Until I've braided all my hair,
there came out of it a crooked Old Woman, yellow and lean, with large
palace quite alone. So she went round into all sorts of places, looked
common. Cf. ii. 6. 25 above.
charm. When you are once out upon its bosom you have left all
98. _That crystal scales._ The reading of the early eds., changed by
O, little girl and little boy, if your dear mamma be still alive, be very
castle, where both of them were living together. There she heard that a
disease and terror. The hound had kept upon the grassy border
to us. But as to your own researches, if there is any possible
There goes a tall fish-woman sounding her cry,
on the moor. He proved to be a blackguard and deserted her. The
The forester, however, had an old cook, who one evening took two pails
_Alternate_ rhymes are found only in the plays written before 1599 or
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
articles of clothing, they were at first astonished, and then they
the two rose-trees. One was called Snow-White, and the other Rose-Red.
hast thou been, then?
The figure of Queen Elizabeth in armour, forms a proper addition to the
The tailor would not rely on this, but went down to the stable and
justice have been broken up prematurely, and the people conveyed away in
She had to stoop in order to go in at the low door. "Where are the
snatched at his hat, and wanted to take it away from him, but he held
47. _Death-darting eye_, etc. The eye of the fabled cockatrice or
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
ordered that a watch should be kept every night beneath the tree.
"A precious thing, dear Father," replied the son, "a Cudgel in the
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.--
62. _Extremes._ Extremities, sufferings. Cf. _R. of L._ 969:--
shape and centred upon the naturalist. In that impassive
just as a stranger dogged us in London. We have never shaken him
you anything. If I disclose it to any one, then all our good fortune
_Romeo._ Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
goat cleared them all off.
valued her life.
fetch a little Prince out of the well. Go home and be easy. In nine
"One last question, Holmes," I said as I rose. "Surely there is
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;
as I do. If you will come down to Baskerville Hall and see me
same), in Halliwell-Phillipps's folio ed. of Shakespeare, and by the New
"There's someone in here," cried Lestrade. "I can hear a
"Yes, dear Hans, I will do that."
Quoth I to the Postman, good master, your nag,
youth, "Hollo, you liar; you said the goat had had enough, and have let
_Sampson._ A dog of the house of Montague moves
of the world. The longer one stays here the more does the spirit
flowers and herbs. It was, however, surrounded by a high wall, and no
"If you have not that drumstick you cannot open the Glass Mountain, and
of the hunters.
[Picture: The Bank of England]
_Benvolio._ The what?
in afterwards, and the good doctor took us all to the yew alley
The Vandeleurs found it convenient to change their name to
When the King came home, he saw the empty cage, and asked the Queen how
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee;
comrade, the shoemaker, also became court-shoemaker. When the latter
Romeo is a very young man--if indeed we may call him a man when we first
being discovered at Gosport, in Hampshire.  It appeared that this little
is unquestionably a fraud, though it has been exhibited for a century or
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
evidence may implicate not only your friend Mr. Stapleton but his
And then will I be general of your woes
of the art, for every ass does not attain such perfection.
Unused to control,
the maiden's left slipper remained sticking. The King's Son picked it
answer to my question."
THE GOLD-CHILDREN                                                151
"O sacred receptacle of my joys!" So also in _Per._ iv. 6. 186; the only
_Juliet._ Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
good cheer, and thumped the table in his joy till the glasses danced,
and it answered as before:
A choking gall, and a preserving sweet.
at them, which is a disgrace to them if they bear it.             40
a grin. "What was it you wanted to ask, sir?"
"Yes, I was chasing a Cyclopides. He is very rare and seldom
For it was bad enough before their spite.
This is one of the ships called Newcastle Colliers, laden with coals from
While upon my crooked back
I have done anything to forfeit your confidence?"
an you will give me occasion.
Sojourn in Mantua; I'll find out your man,
cavalcade, attending.
The little tailor went home, and at the appointed time was at the
on the flute for the last time, and the head of my beloved rose out of
that he would wish me to go with him, nor could I understand how
Perdita only sixteen, as we learn from the prologue to act iv. of _The
_Friar Laurence._ These violent delights have violent ends,
choked her.
felt quite changed.
"No," said the Moon, "I have seen no Dove, but here I give you an egg.
Cf. _Ode on Nativ._ 132: "Make up full consort to the angelic symphony;"
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost.                      230
"was gone." There was the same reason for killing Mercutio. The
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
The fresh beauty of the following morning did something to efface
140. _Take me with you._ Let me understand you. Cf. _1 Hen. IV._ ii. 4.
Hans had fallen asleep, then they got up, and went away leaving him
Northumberland Hotel which he had chosen? If they had followed
that inspire the soliloquy.
creature, carrying very great weights of spices and merchandise, for a
"not out [full] three years old" when her father was driven from Milan.
one that no persuasion can do good upon." For _peevish_ = foolish,
importunities and the persuasions of his wife, who has favoured an early
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
The tailor called to remembrance what his mother had formerly said to
The Kids said, "Dear Mother, we will take good care of ourselves. You
Joringel went away, and at last came to a strange village. There he
forward through the leaves as he dared, and stared at her. Either he
man."
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear                       60
there are no other men of education within many miles. Sir
_Romeo._ This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
_Romeo._ O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
saddle.  Then the revellers rode close together, for a
_Romeo._ I will follow you.
under his feet as if they were alive, it was beyond his strength. The
be lying in front of the stable.
"Welcome, Sir Henry! Welcome to Baskerville Hall!"
But every man betake him to his legs.
"Then anyone could have got over it?"
change of this five-pound note."
in the bed.
Soon afterward, the old Goat came home again from the forest. Ah! what
Barrymore to prepare his luggage.  That night he went out
of building large family tombs:--
57. _Bankrupt._ The early eds. have "banckrout" or "bankrout," as often
"Stuck in the hay-cart."
It is supposed that more money is taken at this place for shell-fish, in
in an uproar, some calling for their pistols, some for
Anon, good nurse!--Sweet Montague, be true.
News from Verona!--How now, Balthasar!
73. _O serpent heart_, etc. Cf. _Macb._ i. 5. 66:--
_2 Hen. IV._ ii. 4. 269, etc.
dog?" and immediately she transformed him, so that he lay like a stone.
nothing to eat?"
out the meaning of this curt message. It was I, then, and not Sir
with equal feeling and judgment; and, far from being a fault in taste
_Enter_ NURSE _and_ PETER
59. _Spinners._ Long-legged spiders, mentioned also in _M.N.D._ ii. 2.
interior recess, in depth about four feet in width three, in height six
on the floor; but he never lost his senses, and taking advantage of their
barrel to the feet of the Knight, for she was vexed with One-Eye and
shoe were found in the soldier's house it would go badly with him.
On the second and third nights it fell out just the same, and then his
help being sorry to give up his good fortune and turn his back on the
"What did you take her?"
banqueting-hall, his bedroom candle in his hand, and he held it
are ready to take over the Hall."
Street, which was actually one of those called upon by my agent
indelibly graven upon my recollection, and I can tell them
66. _O'er-perch._ Used by S. nowhere else.
king's service.
"What is it?" we both cried.
"Perhaps your name is _Rumpelstiltskin_?"
She stayed some time with Mother Holle, then she grew sad. At first she
INTRODUCTION.
20, _C. of E._ iv. 4. 22, etc.
"Mind it is, for it's the last thing of mine that I'll lose in
because he was unequal to the effort of maintaining the full vigour or
SCENE: _Verona_; _Mantua_.
will give you the course of events as nearly as I can, and you
29.  London Stone.
When they had entered the room, the Old Woman said, "You might have
"There is nothing to be done here," and they went home and told the
_Friar Laurence._ My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.--
"Do none suggest themselves? You know my methods. Apply them!"
Charles the new baronet might refuse to live here. It is asking
7.  The culanna, or pointless sword, being the sword of mercy.
Chapter 11 The Man on the Tor
"I am looking for my brothers, the Seven Ravens," she replied.
"Yes, sir; there is another man upon the moor."
unmitigated scoundrel for whom there was neither pity nor excuse.
you will soon be fat."
intends to use a most forcible expression, and blunders upon a most
corridor was all in darkness. Softly we stole along until we had
barrier of city authority, the trumpets are sounded thrice; and the
himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of his head was golden,
the cord of rushes, took it in her own hand, and went away with the
THE GOOSE-GIRL                                                   240
Where the stormy billows roar,
putting yourself in a very false position by not making an
in the stillness of death, the huge jaws seemed to be dripping
unprincipled man, named _Blood_, had attempted to steal the crown and
"_Flounder, Flounder in the sea,
_She_ shall press, ah, nevermore!
But as he approached the tree, a Lion leapt from beneath it, shook
flowers of every kind, are brought for sale from the country.  By four
That monthly changes in her circled orb,                         110
The Old Woman gave her a Golden Flute, and said, "Tarry till the full
In many palaces, however, such suites form a long and straight vista,
sitting on their throne. The Count fell on one knee, drew the emerald
movement. Open this door!"
Verplanck remarks, it is quite probable that the correction was the
their ancient grudge and choler, whereby they were then reconciled: and
only careless, but thought fit to take unwarrantable liberties with the
When the tailor heard that, he took his pocket-handkerchief, pressed it
up, and it was small and dainty, and all golden.
of the maiden, from whence the Old Woman fetched it away every morning.
Herself pois'd with herself in either eye;
come swimming toward him.
"That is very interesting."
believed that certain malignant spirits, whose delight was to wander in
An old man of the Capulet family.
"I have locked them in the cellar, and to-morrow they shall be led into
"It is farther on," said I; "but observe the white web-work which
At length (so mighty Jove it would) by pitye they are wonne."
SAMPSON, }
He, however, who digs a pit for another, falls into it himself.
step, made closer approach to the speaker.  But from a certain nameless
"Don't let your hair grow gray about that," said the stork. "I will
Fly hence, and leave me; think upon these gone,                 60
this apartment, a ray about the breadth of a hair fell on the King's
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
corrupt here. The reading in the text is Malone's, and perhaps gives
more quickly, get up behind on my tail."
[_Romeo descends._
heard the hound on the moor, so I can swear that it is not all
"But how?"
_Balthasar._ [_Aside_] For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout;
"Well, it depends upon what you think worth reporting."
house that she awoke. There was a sound of cracking and splitting in
"  2. (Monday) Act II. sc. iii.-vi., Act III. sc. i.-iv.
remarks, these marine monsters often appear in representations of
17. _Come, Night_, etc. Mrs. Jameson remarks: "The fond adjuration,
"I have heard so much."
tightly, they cut the laces. Than she began to breathe a little, and
room while he, disguised in a beard, followed Dr. Mortimer to
"And found nothing?"
14. _Bandy._ A metaphor from tennis. Cf. _L. L. L._ v. 2. 29: "Well
It happened that the King gave a feast, which was to last three days.
20. _The pale reflex of Cynthia's brow._ That is, the pale light of the
May call it early by and by.--Good night.              [_Exeunt._
a son to be brought to me within nine days, you shall have my eldest
much water?"
if I see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law on
_Juliet._ The tears have got small victory by that,               30
The huntsman was moved to pity, put away his anger, and told the miller
was not long before the dog fell in with some game, and wanted to
whisked round and had just time to catch a glimpse of something
they became aware that the King had an evil intention, and wanted to
greediness let her have no sleep, for she was continually thinking what
while the folding doors slide back nearly to the walls on either hand,
"Seems to me they are playing me for a sucker in this hotel," he
blue eyes were accounted ugly; but the reference there, as in _A.Y.L._
"You less know how to value her desert
weep nor speak, nor move hand or foot.
_Romeo._                         My dear?
brown boot. Holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to
The shoemaker, however, did not give up, but went for the third time to
For who is living if those two are gone?
What, not a word?--How sound is she asleep!
sense), etc.
_Nurse._ I speak no treason.
Second, who appointed it for their inauguration.  The coronation chairs
"_Pretty little Hen,
_Paris._ Come you to make confession to this father?
fashion and a toy in blood;" _Id._ 1. 4. 75: "toys of desperation;"
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
story of the family, though I never thought of taking it
THE TWO TRAVELERS
the hand and fled.
"About what?"
nuts, having no other reason but because thou hast
mind to discover where the Princesses danced their shoes into holes,
55. _Homely in thy drift._ Simple in what you have to say. Cf. iv. 1.
Tower,) on part of the present scite of the Tower, to which the origin of
conjuror by them.
And that bare vowel I shall poison more
to help the police in any way. For all they cared it might have
best I can for you in return. I know something, Sir Henry, and
of little voices outside his window. He went and listened, and then
The soldier tapped at the pane of glass, and when this man came up,
The second, "Who has been eating off my plate?"
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art;
castle with Twelve Princes," and related how it had come to pass, and
She, however, caught at his hat and pulled it off, and then his golden
crevice of the tree, and the little fellow was jumping backward and
extreme beauty. The reader should have seen 'Daybreak,' and think what
waiting for us upon the platform.
John of Gaunt's play on his name when on his death-bed (_Rich. II._ ii.
But the fair maiden was sad. She sat down and wept bitterly. One tear
certainly the records which he was able to give of his ancestors
table, the second into the bed, the third into the stove, the fourth
was written upon it in golden letters.
"To the man of precisely scientific mind the work of Monsieur
their hands together before the altar, and married them. He led her
_Lady Capulet._ This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,
down the famous yew alley of Baskerville Hall.  The
with us." And she thought to herself, "That she most certainly cannot
"It rose and fell with the wind. Isn't that the direction of the
clearness and completeness with which her mind embraces her present
relish.
the place? They first named the richest; the poorest, they said, was
Tibalt, prince of cats." _Tibert_, _Tybert_, and _Tybalt_ are forms of
her many costly vessels of silver and gold, and trinkets, also of gold
secure it that one could not for the moment tell whether it was
Day 3. (Tuesday) Act III. sc. v., Act IV. sc. i.-iv.
Sister, and sleep in peace. God will not forsake us," and he lay down
done, we will come back and fetch you away."
of life. Then said he, "Wife, now that you are Pope, be satisfied, you
who was full of joy, and put a gold chain round the tailor's neck.
Hung the merchant's precious pack,
Than she to scant ["slack" in quartos] her duty;"
A scum of Brittaines, and base Lackey Pezants,
powers are yet not ready;" _Hen. VIII._ ii. 4. 204: "full sick, and yet
boys passed her, he whispered to them, "Beware of the Old Woman. She
The reply of the musician may perhaps mean "that he will retort by
I have already seen by his golden hair that he is no gardener's boy,"
31. _Quote._ Note, observe. Cf. _Ham._ ii. 1. 112:--
Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
consequences of his own wicked acts? Ask me what you like, and
She said, no, she would not sell it, but if the Bride would grant her
the handkerchief.
an instance.
But since they both loved each other with all their hearts, they would
brunette whom I have seen in England--slim, elegant, and tall. She
they went for a walk in the forest.
threescore dishes at one boord, and after that alwayes a banquet."
Comments on Some of the Characters                       278
"I tell you again, do not hinder me in my work. Do not say a word
Romeo! O, pale!--Who else? what, Paris too?
hunched together as if in the act of throwing a somersault. So
29. _Worser._ Cf. iii. 2. 108 below: "worser than Tybalt's death."
Lestrade. You have been inside the house, have you not, Watson?
Mountain. In the twinkling of an eye they were sitting on it together.
And found no food, so went without,
In this my little book.
distinction about it. That change in the footprints, for example.
A Heavy Shower of Gold-Rain Fell                                 210
fear, or very possibly both, since they are by no means
75. _Rosemary._ That is, the rosemary that had been brought for the
156. _Spoke him fair._ Spoke gently to him. Cf. _M.N.D._ ii. 1. 199: "Do
When unroasted, unboiled,
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
with sufficient clearness in the prologue to indicate Shakespeare's
the bottom. His face was flushed with anger and his brows were
church; but that was merely a receptacle for bones from old graves and
skilful swimmer; and see what has been the consequence!  He was seized
fasten our buckles, for we are going to the feast at the King's palace."
opinion, for he says,
written, to describe unto thee a couple of unfortunate lovers, thralling
"This barefoote fryer gyrt with cord his grayish weede, For he of
with light hair and grey eyes, while she was darker than any
younger brother.  The young man when last heard of was in
think we should do?"
calculations. There remain the people who will actually surround
forgotten peoples in the days of old. The moon was shining
at last it came to my aid. And the messenger of good fortune was
you two are sped," etc. See also Milton, _Lycidas_, 122: "What need
_Lady Montague._ Thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe.
FRANCES JENKINS OLCOTT
exciting any remarks. He had already on his insect hunts learned
But the youngest brother was not dead. By good fortune the well was
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
tragedy. Sir Henry was much interested and asked Stapleton more
day is past!"
"Having conceived the idea he proceeded to carry it out with
"Now, for some space the revellers stood agape, unable to
32. _Beetle-brows._ Prominent or overhanging brows. Cf. the verb
threw the sleeping-draught away.
they not? I should be sorry to begin my life here by breaking an
tastes led me to explore every part of the country round, and I
When it was quite dark the owners of the cottage came back. They were
them all and made no delay, but swallowed one after the other down his
open it, and she could get in nowhere. Then she ran out of the village,
long time contentedly with his wife.
When you are Queen you will have no more need to go on foot."
two regular accents occur, but we have a metrical accent on the first
arithmetic!--Why the devil came you between us?
What were you doing at that window?"
yourself so well, I give you an Ass of a peculiar kind, which neither
suspect that I have seen you. Good-bye!" She turned and had
another has said, "Perhaps the worst line that Shakespeare or any other
"No doubt, but this was no sheep-dog."
"Give us some of it," cried the Little Men.
_Paris._ Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
"That's better," said he, seeing the shadow rise from my face.
36. _Leaves._ The plural is used because the reference is to more than
25. _Held him carelessly._ Cf. _3 Hen. VI._ ii. 2. 109: "I hold thee
She went away at once, and told the old King that the man outside there
In Arabian deserts bare,
Then they laughed and said, "If that's all you want, you may have it."
60. _Soon-speeding gear._ Quick-despatching stuff. Cf. the extract from
arrested by the rock, stood stupidly bewildered.  A moment more and I
This dagger hath mista'en,--for, lo, his house
passing by _The Obelisk_, in Fleet Street, built by the City of London,
With nimble soles; I have a soul of lead
In a short time he reached the well, filled his pitcher with water,
_L. L. L._ iv. 1. 136), or white mark at which the arrows were aimed, was
him we could kill him. Never have I seen a man run as Holmes ran
good soup, and the bowl was placed upon the table, she said, "Am I to
abilities. It may be that you are not yourself luminous, but you
summoned the Little Black Man and said, "I have served the King
For my wife, Dame Ilsabil,
3.  A spadole, used as a small sword, the point poisoned.
basket. He found the Blue Light, and made her a signal to draw him
sweetness and dignity of Juliet's character are preserved inviolate to
at last was freed from the magic charm which had been laid upon him.
fulness of enthusiastic admiration for her lover which possesses her
carry the whole world before us!"
The Bride ran back into the chamber, and said, "I know now what I said
her so little to eat. She sat down on a ridge and began to weep, and so
and the boot became full to the top. She informed her father how it had
The privilege of working as a waterman on the river Thames, is only to be
maddening with rage and the shame of his own momentary cowardice,
Just that soft shade of green we sometimes see
seems to forget the time of year. In the masquerade scene (i. 5) Old
had formerly given its liberty, and which had now become a beautiful
now, (as oxen do not know they ought not to be revengeful,) you cannot be
place, and the drag is about to begin. We'll know before the day
15.  A battle-axe, or scull-cracker, to make four holes at a blow.
That bate and beat and will not be obedient."
youth in _The Belle of the Ball-room_:--
was right.
The King's Son ascended. He did not find his dearest Rapunzel above,
he could not help interrupting with a passionate outburst which
Now came the turn of the third son, who wanted to do the thing well,
Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
all out of his head once more. So each of my cases displaces the
complication" of Romeo's love for Rosaline. On the other hand, Coleridge
Within the infant rind of this weak flower
"_Moth._ A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.
a company of musicians. Cf. _T.G. of V._ iii. 2. 84:--
bolted it. But in the morning, when he unlocked the door, he saw that
take particular care of his pockets, that the money depart not without
custom than propriety.  Some boys make rare sport, by putting one foot on
and iv. 2. 31 below. Cf. _Temp._ iv. 1. 7:--
L. L.?"
the fire, and boiled yarn in it. When it was boiled, she flung it on
as he comes out of dores, it is a signe of ill lucke." Bishop Hall, in
She gave a long sigh of satisfaction.
61.  The Admiralty Office.
such Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that
cave and looked in. But when he saw the fiery eyes, fear seized him
after us. Come on! We'll see it through if all the fiends of the
"What a pity we did not get the number!"
[Picture: Covent Garden]
77. _A courtier's nose._ As this is a repetition, Pope substituted
That hart with hart by even waight doo make exchaunge of love."
worthy to be your wife."
examples of the opposition of _married_ and _marred_ are not uncommon
family could be scared away a comfortable and permanent home
it ceased to cook.
"Excellent! This is a colleague, Watson, after our own heart. But
the _M. of V._ It begins with plain prosaic talk about a business
"I hardly know myself," answered he, and added in jest, "I had half a
and 'Hide me from day's garish eye.'" S. uses _garish_ only here and in
"To leave you here. You are not fit for further adventures
The condensed summary of the comments upon it fills twenty-eight octavo
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
have supposed, being found in _Piers Plowman_ and other early English.
juncture."
And a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome,
away."
the window, and the little chickens pleased her so that she came down
"No, Watson, I fear that I could not undertake to recognize your
I find that a concentrated atmosphere helps a concentration of
to a description of a child that has been lost.  The number of children
He tied up his bundle and hurried away to the gate. When he got to the
thirty-six in-door pensioners, and an unlimited number of out-door
itself to reach what lies beyond; and she swallows the potion with his
the house is renovated and refurnished, all that he will need
Then her husband was alarmed, and asked, "What ails you, dear Wife?"
"His wife!" she said again. "His wife! He is not a married man."
chimes of the clock yet rang, it was observed that the giddiest grew
death from cardiac exhaustion.  This explanation was borne
grave.
death, and yet it would be hardly possible to bring home the
_Romeo._ Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
Earlier in the play (i. 2. 16) Capulet has said to Paris:--
After some time, however, the gray-haired man came, took his candle,
which followed, but I was convinced at the time that the matter
himself. He is a little wanting at the best." But at last, as he had no
THE SIX SWANS
Where roses wild are seen;
1666, and burnt with unabated fury till the 10th of the same month.
bane and an antidote" (Dowden).
upon us. In my last report I ended upon my top note with
the little circle of light thrown by a shaded lamp, one's voice
me perfectly in keeping with the character and the situation. The
"There's foul play somewhere, and there's black villainy brewing,
The next morning, Dunderhead took the Goose under his arm and set out,
34. _Good morrow._ Here = good-by.
15. _Lammas-tide._ The 1st of August. _Tide_ = time, as in _even-tide_,
sleep in your room."
"I fancy old Frankland allows her a pittance, but it cannot be
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
To sunder his that was thine enemy?                            100
skin and washed herself. Her golden hair fell down all about her,
Then they went to sleep, and next morning when the sun awoke them, a
asked Holmes with some asperity.
Then she emptied her basin of broth, and when she was fully satisfied,
"With Grethel."
For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand.
He waited until her father came, and said to him, "The stranger-maiden
keeping with the character. Probably this and the next two speeches
CLEVER HANS                                                      285
_Enter_ ROMEO _and_ JULIET
"My missing boot!" he cried.
drop dead on the ground."
King and the Queen resolved to seek out the Old Woman. They thought
looked on the distant country, as if she were very sorrowful.
outside."
"Don't be impatient," said Snow-White, "I will help you," and she
My native, sandy, barren plain!
stones, still to be seen there, which were set by certain
Was ever conduct of;"
Then the bird threw down a much more beautiful dress than on the
And now the bird threw down to her a dress which was more splendid and
Chapter 12 Death on the Moor
problem. Recognizing, as I do, that you are the second highest
come to an opinion. I have seen the boy again and again with his
dust ascended from the land, and there was tremendous fluttering and
Nettle-plant so small!
appeared in 1599, declared to be "newly corrected, augmented, and
he would not come back willingly, they should cut him down and stab him.
old Witch, and shut up in an Iron Stove in a forest. There he passed
he had struck up an acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon
"Good-day, Dr. Watson," cried he with unwonted good humour, "you
did her best to treat her still worse. She was envious too because the
them and was about to wring its neck.
these few weeks, but from the first I just felt that she was made
"My life has been one incessant persecution from a husband whom I
complete knave," etc.
in his hand, and there is no longer anything hanging to it.
wedding; for it was used at both weddings and funerals. Cf. Herrick,
90. _O._ Grief, affliction. In _Lear_, i. 4. 212, it means a cipher. It
SCENE II. _A Street_
carpet into the house, and when he entered the room, there stood the
The bee said, "Bear, I pity you! I am a poor weak creature, whom you
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
Turn to another, this shall slay them both.
even for ourselves?"
The eldest son set out. He trusted to his cleverness, and thought that
her.
"I can't say that he ever did."
Then Two-Eyes came to her, waked her and said, "Have you been asleep,
Stars from heaven fell down, and they were nothing else but hard smooth
merit, and to have high artistic merit of their own.
above.
and rest. We will go into the forest and cut some wood. When we have
endless date of never-ending woes;" _Sonn._ 18. 4: "And summer's lease
Live here in heaven and may look on her,
_Benvolio._ I aim'd so near when I suppos'd you lov'd.
"Come, sir, come!" cried Frankland, rushing upstairs. "You will
Here comes the lady. O, so light a foot
[_Laying down a dagger._
better luck in Devonshire. But I'm not easy in my mind about it."
30. _That hath new robes_, etc. Cf. _Much Ado_, iii. 2. 5: "Nay, that
"My dear fellow, you have been invaluable to me in this as in
After the father's death, the eldest went away with his cock. But
out their heads from under their wings, looked round, and flew into
frozen, and besides the snow has covered everything. And why am I to
executor of Sir Charles's will."
onward into the valley. At last, she came to a well, with three old
of his will."
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?                   280
which is found in the original story, has been retained by Shakspeare
down to the ground and fell into a heavy sleep.
wrath by the death of his friend is far more impressive. The
_Montague._ I neither know it nor can learn of him.
procession he said, "For shame, you good-for-nothing girls! Why are you
And yet I would it were to give again.
28. _Will not let me speak._ Malone remarks: "S. has here followed the
clutched empty air.
The Dwarfs, when they came home in the evening, found little Snow-White
"Don't be so silly!" said the eldest, "you have caught it on a nail."
on the roof of which it alighted.
beds, wash, sew, and knit, and if you will keep everything neat and
But the mountain belonged to some wild and monstrous Giants, who dwelt
18. _Gossamer._ Light filaments floating in the air, especially in
to me by my eldest daughter, or I shall never get my work done. And in
from the window of his surgery as you passed. As our road lay the
merely for the rhyme's sake, but because the Franciscan had no personal
Clarke notes "the mingling here of words and images full of light and
It was unlikely that she would dare to say that she had not been
As they were sitting thus, all at once a hare came running across the
Full of spices and of gold,
lovers. Cf. _Much Ado_, iii. 3. 161, iv. 1. 94, M.W. iii. 5. 74, etc.
me where I may find the young Romeo?
rather rueful laugh.
I was up betimes in the morning, but Holmes was afoot earlier
something came creeping _splish splash, splish splash,_ up the marble
515:--
house, everything was of real marble and gold, with velvet covers and
would come. Mother Holle led her to the great doorway. But while she
Farewell, dear father!                                 [_Exeunt._
fifty to a hundred years in growing, have been cut down to build it with:
before we had recovered our nerve. Then Holmes and I both fired
celebrated in the evening." See _Notes and Queries_ for April 29 and
236. _Compare._ See on ii. 5. 43 above.
and pulled against the eagle so long that at last he let his booty go.
effect by quickening truth to vividness; the conversion of Mercutio from
THE QUEEN BEE
"There's our man, Watson! Come along! We'll have a good look at
dramatic effect of the scene in the play where Romeo avoids being drawn
veins upon the sides of the hills, and the distant boulders
Then they closed again behind him like a hedge.
"_Thou hast eaten with him,_
The father answered, "Your brothers have hurt themselves doing so.
"It is this," I answered, producing a trowel from beneath the folds of
are obliged to him.  The West and East India Docks receive now, most of
successful. He then attempts to do this himself, but the only result is
lighted, she looked around and six Swans came flying through the air
south-west of England. By the time that you have looked through
but a plantain!"
Boleyn, wife of the cruel King Henry the Eighth, is also shown here.  The
that. But he will never trouble anyone in this country again. I
The Swans swept toward her and sank down so that she could throw the
wrong direction after all, I mounted a hill from which I could
12):--
words used by Hugo Baskerville, when he was in wine, were
and a white feather. These will show you the way. If you follow the
well you are looking to-day!  But I have received a pipe of what passes
17. _Will ne'er wear out_, etc. White thinks that the reading of the 1st
sitting at home in the dirt, picking lentils out of the ashes.
children. But since the Brothers issued their book, about a hundred
See the black and shining coal;
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!                       70
horses grew likewise.
wiry bulldog of a man had sprung from a first-class carriage. We
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
"Visit by night your lady's chamber-window
that I had so far mastered his system as to apply it in a way
forced her to get up quite early in the morning in order to look after
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
_Trim._ The reading of 1st quarto; the other early eds. have "true."
(Schmidt). Steevens quotes _Wily Beguiled_: "Why, he's a man as one
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
We had a small scene this morning after breakfast. Barrymore
fast together. Nothing was left but to bring out the scissors and cut
get out again. Even in this strait, the faithful Fox did not leave him.
there is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would
"Queer spot to choose, is it not?" said he as if in answer to my
[Illustration: EACH STAR SAT ON ITS OWN LITTLE CHAIR]
constantly haunted him, and on more than one occasion he has
You'll not endure him!--God shall mend my soul!--
wall, the cook in the kitchen was still holding out his hand to seize
"Nothing, nothing," he answered, and held his finger behind his back,
Yes, my dear fellow, you may laugh, but I give you my word that I
"Dear Sisters, do give me some part of my goat. I don't wish for what
thrust out an evil yellow face, a terrible animal face, all
been selected. Among these are famous tales as well as many delightful
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
175-177. _God's bread!_ etc. The text of the early eds. is evidently
undertakings prospered.
Gold Fish for a third time.
had driven away his three sons without cause. "Wait, you ungrateful
[Illustration]
58. _Kindly._ The word literally means "naturally, in a manner suited to
the house after his father's death; but the father loved them all
against the evening sky, the long, gloomy curve of the moor,
Who are less useful, I'm afraid,
Vauxhall, and back again.  What a number of boats there are on the water!
Unto the rigour of severest law.
thunder-shower, and the Ass did not stop until every one of them had so
Now, all these rooms are unfurnished and unoccupied so that his
At a green-grocer's shop,
"I have been foretelling fine weather, because it is the day on
by little everything which she had on that she could do without, until
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
hair, which she was holding off her shoulders with her soft hands, fell
forward like a dog tied to a rope, and did not know what to do.
The eldest went thither, and sought the whole day, but when it came
_Mercutio._ Right.
name is Dr. Watson."
"Fortunato!"
"They barr'd their gates,
Being held a foe, he may not have access
someone, a trusty man, who will be always by your side."
She thought the Old Man was up already, and looked round at his bed.
Then the old King was so terrified that he all but fainted, for he had
"Now then, old shaver, what has gone askew with you?" asked the Donkey.
man's was visible. On seeing him lying still the creature had
thereon and lived their lives there, and he had not sat long, before he
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
And yet, to my teen be it spoken, I have but four,--
interrupts the servant, who would have said 'Up to our house.'"
At last, she said to the Old Woman, "I am longing for home. However
A lad of fourteen, with a bright, keen face, had obeyed the
our faces and the dark, void spaces on either side of the narrow
Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
Cf. the use of the verb in _Much Ado_, ii. 1. 239, _Rich. III._ iv. 4.
Daughter. "Behold!" said he, "I have not bestirred myself till now. It
rather more clear to you before long. It has been an exceedingly
The next morning, little Snow-White awoke, and was frightened when she
The office of bellman was first instituted in 1556, for the purpose of
looked round him, he was standing before a little house, wherein was a
shone with amused exultation.
she cried, "I will not endure this, I'll not bear it any longer. Will
I will push Montague's men from the wall, and
and led him away to the castle.
2. The accent in any part of the verse may be shifted from an even to an
"That, unfortunately, is what I cannot tell you. Have you among
_Benvolio._                       Groan! why, no,
[Illustration]
interview. A wisp of green floating in the air caught my eye, and
To return to the play--one would suppose that the keynote was struck
To make confession and to be absolv'd.
Dr. Mortimer assure me will be a temporary one. A long journey
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
people buying and selling; the carts going to and fro, laden with
[Footnote 7: For the rhyme of _after_ and _daughter_, cf. _T. of S._ i.
ground. And as they were so weary that their legs would carry them no
winds. If he was vulnerable he was mortal, and if we could wound
said, "Beware of the Queen, she will soon know that you are here. Be
"How shall I get it?" asked the youth.
to throw down the nut, he will let you fall into the sea."
She scolded her hard, and was so cruel as to say, "Since you have let
in the face as a turkey-cock! Carry your bundle patiently. I will give
(ed. 1632) defines _resveil_ as "a Hunts-up, or morning song, for a
Over the green squares of the fields and the low curve of a wood
conquerors of the natives, and having obtained a footing in the country,
spared yourself the long walk, if you had not three years ago unjustly
"Yes, sir."
But the waiting-maid said still more haughtily, "If you wish to drink,
him of his debt. He never let the boy himself go near the water.
indicate the character or intentions of the man who lived in this
it shine brighter and grow larger, until they came to a well-lighted
In a short time she, with frightful cries, came riding by, as swift
youngest child out with my dinner to-day, she has always been good and
the world, the old woman took it away from her and smeared her mouth
vault overhead, in the fashion of the great catacombs of Paris.  Three
Then they came, and wanted to eat and drink, and looked for their
"I think anything out of the ordinary routine of life well worth
48. _Holp._ Used by S. oftener than _helped_, for both the past tense
her mind to spend the night there, as she was afraid of wild beasts.
publications of the New Shakspere Society, etc.). Every teacher and
"I was doing no harm, sir. I was holding a candle to the window."
it."
the father of the Princess, who was a sorcerer. They seated themselves
"Old woman, you are shameless!" said the Count, and tried to throw off
Court, in May, was remarkable for the cold-blooded pistolling of
engraver and worker in brass and iron.  He was supposed to be the
for I have done with thee," the Lady adds, and leaves the hapless girl
is a symptom which is not unusual in cases of dyspnoea and
as a wonder. She was as white as snow, as rosy as apple-blossoms, and
Then the Little Man fell on them like lightning, darting this way and
37. _Savage-wild._ Cf. ii. 2. 141 above.
Pope. There is but one in Christendom. He cannot make you Pope."
"my son." No question now of delay, and getting her "consent" as a
"Can you see anything?"
This grand excavation was made in 1821, through the eastern side of
back terrified, and said, "How come you here? Who are you?"
that the one is extracted out of the other. 'You,' 'your,'
Nettle-plant so small!
And, for my part, I should not be much in amaze,
and yet you will not hear me!"
My friend spoke in his frankest and most unconcerned manner.
"_Oh, Queen, thou art fairest of all I see,
mean well by you, there is one thing I will grant you. If you fall into
her, stood her maids-in-waiting in a row, each of them always one head
drink, or you will become a Wolf, and devour me."
Watson, has informed me of what you have communicated, and also
When the Corn Was Ripe, They Shot It Down                        273
to the house of the Old Woman. She sat out, and the Wise Woman gave
especially used of horses; as in _A.Y.L._ i. 1. 13, etc.
_Romeo._ What shall I swear by?
But the Raven still beguiling all my sad soul into smiling,
_Juliet._ Wash they his wounds with tears; mine shall be spent,  130
have no rest. And when she had at last thought of something to do, she
ii. 1. 54, where it has the same meaning.
days from this time repair to the royal palace, and there will I come."
Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
[Picture: Billingsgate]
At the close of the poem we are told that--
"Aha! are you there?" cried the soldier, "get to your work at once!
therefore expressed much in verse that is within the capabilities of
15. _Thrills._ The ellipsis is somewhat peculiar from the fact that the
LITTLE TABLE SET THYSELF, GOLD-ASS, AND CUDGEL OUT OF THE SACK
beautiful Princess was going to the bathing-house. Then he sprang out
She took the Kid out, and it told her that the Wolf had come and had
back on it now, the slanting rays of a low sun turning the
earthenware dish with some food, which her sisters had set ready for
with us?" said they. "He who wants to eat bread, must earn it. Out with
till morning, but will go out of the town at once, to-day."
But there were ample signs that I had not come upon a false
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.                    30
one little slip, the end of a page, hung together, and the
the only instance of the kind in Shakespeare. Orsino's experience in
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
_Gregory._ But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
only a waiting-maid, but that the true one was standing there, as the
When all that was inside, there was still room for a great deal
longer can hunt, my master wants to kill me. So I have taken to flight.
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
When they saw little Snow-White lying as if dead upon the ground, they
With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here
29. _Encounter._ Meeting. It is often used, as here, of the meeting of
In a swinging bucket drawn.
Uneven is the course, I like it not.
63. _Then is my pump_, etc. The idea seems to be, my shoe or _pump_,
in the heavens. Then it sank lower, and let itself down on a great
"You will begin in each case by giving the outside porter one
Hans takes the bacon, ties it to a rope, and drags it away behind him.
What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
ceiling beyond them. With rows of flaring torches to light it up,
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.                       50
longer. You will not receive any more money, for only he receives wages
loaded with chains, he was standing at the window of his dungeon, when
inventor of the _Eolian Harp_, whose soft notes are produced by a current
as he had conducted himself so well, his master presented him with a
there is an end. The children must go, we will take them farther into
and entreated the King to let her stay just one night more in the
COMPANY
my side.
there is an extra unaccented syllable.
[Footnote 4: The entire poem is reprinted in the _Variorum_ of 1821, in
Mortimer. "My wife is expecting me."
we are too late!"
and felt satisfied.  I reapproached the wall; I replied to the yells of
Mr. Sherlock Holmes
part, and it may be that I have got a little careless in my ways
passes along the same path at the same hour, and to whom should
when thou was not there for the goose.
be found, and I was fearful of losing a bargain."
He put his mantle on her, took her before him on his horse, and carried
and wisest one is to play my own game and speak as little as
"The King soon afterward repented of his great severity, and had the
church, where it has long been preserved.  It is now cased with
"Yes, yes," I said; "yes, yes."
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand.
crockery. This was all done to humble your proud spirit, and to punish
on foot. That would have accounted for his stealthy movements and
[Picture: The British Museum]
put forth a decree that whosoever should make her laugh should marry
at the end of the forest, where the fox and the hare bid each other
tears would be shed because of this. But the crow said, "Caw, caw," and
down by the hearth, and let the children amuse themselves with him as
would make his fortune by it.
great Grimpen Mire?"
38.  The taking of Guy Fawkes.
streets" if she does not marry Paris that very week. "Do as thou wilt,
And Grethel said, "I, too, will take something home with me," and
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
[Picture: The Coach-stand]
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
stay the night. Now the host had three daughters, who saw the Goose
foot-soldiers against cavalry" (Fairholt). Cf. _Ham._ i. 1. 140: "Shall
The night was clear and fine above us. The stars shone cold and
etc. Cf. _Matthew_, vi. 6.
Then the envious mother cried, "Do you want to fare better than we do?
thousand and two hundred houses, it terminated.
put out your wit.
fairly rained down money on the ground.
through a hole left by a knot in the wood.
eat her breakfast.
ope his doublet," etc.
the ivy and dripping from the eaves. I thought of the convict out
spread, and the servants were running hither and thither.
48.  Blackfriars' Bridge.
cigarette into the fire.
148. _With._ By; as often of the agent or cause.
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
That cop'st with death himself to scape from it;
"But this is my special hobby, and the differences are equally
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore--
He had uttered a cry and bent over the body. Now he was dancing
carriages about midnight, by a procession of gentlemen, the chief
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
of the clock, formerly stood two gigantic statues, commonly called Gog
"We will think about that," said the wife.
white feathers in his hat. Then she sat down to work again in her own
_Juliet._ Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
is transacted; and where the judges sit to hear and determine causes.  In
Thereupon Dunderhead asked to have her for his wife, and the wedding
than once heard the sound of voices raised, and I had a pretty
purity and timidity of Juliet, though it occurs in a connection so
"_Nettle-plant, Nettle-plant,
united himself to her.
is deceased too;" but, as Ulrici remarks, "the pacific, considerate
"In that case the coincidence must indeed be an extraordinary
stretched away until it merged into the russet slopes of the
again:--
"What do you make of it?"
same is true of _patience_ in v. 1. 27 v. 1. 27, v. 3. 221 and 261. This
night has fallen down over us from the gallows, gives every one who
cap pulled far over her face, and looking very strange.
said, "Dear Countryman, let me just taste this wonderful salad."
the forest with safety.
The second came in soon afterward, thinking only of how she might get a
little room where Briar-Rose was sleeping. There she lay, so beautiful
who have at times been stolen from their homes, has caused great alarm to
ACT V
"Come," said the Fisherman, "there is no need for so many words about
his return home.
_Comus_, 321: "Unmuffle, ye faint stars."
maimed, by the ladder's sliding from under them; or sometimes a careless
and on searching for the cause, to his great surprise found a live
maiden to the King who sent you to the Golden Castle. There will be
chirping, screeching, and whistling, and to some, like music without
And the guests, when they saw that he meant it, did not need to be
v. 1. 17 below.
iv. 3. 40 above: "these many hundred years;" and v. 3. 176 below: "these
their way, and yet were so much cleverer.
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
thick brows, his sensitive nostrils, and his large hazel eyes. If
in the forest.
"For you to know could not have helped us and might possibly have
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;                       20
boats.
lieve be shot."
she said:
own again and punish treachery."
"we'll encamp ourselves." On the figurative _encamp_, cf. _L.C._ 203.
well-deserved punishment."
"By thunder, you're right! Well, if that isn't smart!" cried Sir
knocked at the door of the house, and cried, "Open the door, dear
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
the bottle upwards with a gesticulation I did not understand.
Of yonder knight?
Nell.--Antony!--and Potpan!
_Servant._ God gi' good-den.--I pray, sir, can you
the train began to glide down the platform. "Bear in mind, Sir
And as out of a planke a nayle a nayle doth drive:
princox boy."
longed for it, and had the greatest desire to eat some.
of the royal palace, with everything that pertained to it, movable
Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
personification. Cf. _2 Hen. IV._ iii. 1. 22:--
musicians think Peter a 'pestilent knave,' perhaps for his inopportune
But Grethel saw what she had in her mind, and would not creep in.
_Enter_ Nurse
thousand red-hot needles. But if you will leave us in peace and go your
"Then he was certainly there?"
nothing to eat but the scraps they leave? To-day, they have given me so
I'll not endure him.
This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
silver-spangled sky. Broad bars of golden light from the lower
"Sir Henry Baskerville is upstairs expecting you," said the
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.
had a cup of wine in her hand he drank it up, so that the cup was empty
either side, heavy with dripping moss and fleshy hart's-tongue
"Yes, yes! ah, how I wish we were there!" said the Donkey.
they were already made. And buyers also were not wanting, who gave him
_Benvolio._ It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?        160
drawe the chariot of the Sunne, and wished that Phaeton had beene there
The sentinel was standing before the door, and there were numbers of
mouth every time she speaks."
I wish you good morning, Sir--Scissors to grind!"
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
then from this story not to fear the fruits of the past, but
rose" (White). The thought is repeated below in _So Romeo would ... that
"There are asses enough here," said the father. "I would rather have
No one, however, was so happy as the lark at not having to obey the
threw it up in the air and caught it. And this ball was her favorite
above.
editors prefer.
learnt the art of witchcraft from her mother, she sewed a charm inside
these depended a short chain, from the other a padlock.  Throwing the
died of fright in consequence?"
in her breast, she hated the maiden so much.
_Romeo._ There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls,        80
_Cor._ v. 6. 101, 104, 117, etc.
the fancy, even in the midst of all the romance and wilfulness of
Little Table off his back, set it down before him, and said:
She went out and told the servants that the scullery-maid was an
i. 1. 1 above. The play on _note_ is obvious.
his downright fashion, had Barrymore up and asked him whether he
[Illustration]
moon comes again, then take this flute. Play a beautiful air on it, and
reached the baronet, and gave him the first warning of his
London with me tomorrow."
to a royal dowry, for she loved her child with all her heart.
25. _With that part._ That is, with its odour. Malone and Clarke take
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
ordinary work, so I have been to our King's palace and have asked
troubled in the matter. And I have also communicated with my
"And lest that length of time might from our myndes remove
round him, but the shadows were thick upon the moor, and nothing
their shoes were standing there with holes in the soles.
possible that it was Barrymore, after all, whom we had seen in
went toward the light, and on the way she prayed. Then she came to a
swallowed it down, and took the cloak home with him.
has performed both the tasks, he shall not be my husband, until he has
punishment, the wicked woman was bound to the stake and burned to ashes.
There shall no figure at such rate be set
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
a French artist, cast a fine statue in brass, of Charles the First on
eds. have "white, upturned," which Marshall prefers as better expressing
my hair in knots;" and Lodge, _Wit's Miserie_, 1596: "His haires are
to you, but one of the birds will be hurt, and will drop dead.
them rise myself." Then she looked at him so terribly that a shudder
[Picture: The coal-ship and barge]
The Dwarfs said, "If you will take care of our house, cook, make the
"We are coming now rather into the region of guesswork," said Dr.
"Oh, come with me. If we five are together, we shall carry the whole
the most uncommon and curious, "Perhaps your name is _Shortribs_, or
the heads of the men who were hanging there, and pecked his eyes out.
have done, upon the moor? I said it in London, Watson, and I say
not one word shall they have from me, and I bind you to secrecy
_Benvolio._ We talk here in the public haunt of men.
inclination to mix with and, perhaps, control the affairs of the world,
face. Any instant he might dash out the light and vanish in the
But when the Prince went to bed he asked the page what the murmuring
_Juliet._ Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?--
neigh loudly. The grooms awoke, seized the youth, and threw him into
_Enter_ JULIET
poor children.
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
"Glad to meet you, sir. I have heard your name mentioned in
introducing act iv. Songs, interludes, and other matter not in
_opinion_, _soldier_, _patience_, _partial_, _marriage_, etc. For
He paints, he carves, he builds, he fortifies,
In drawing that truck, boy, you now feel a part
6.  The king's coronation ring.
"Dr. Mortimer returns with me."
"Yes, they seem more fertile than the rest."
wash dish."
The Fox cried, "Do not shoot me! And in return I will give you some
32. _Tetchy._ Touchy, fretful. Cf. _Rich. III._ iv. 4. 168: "Tetchy and
am not to go home until I can take them with me."
direction in which the plume of smoke indicated the position of
Hans went into the parlor, but the miller said he should not sit down
sweet countenances beneath" (Clarke).
43. _My lord_, etc. From 1st quarto; the other quartos and 1st folio
come what might.
This had gone on for a long time, when one day the servant, who took
tourist upon the moor, and he had contrived, with that catlike
"I'll behave well. Good-bye, Mother."
the navy, is said, to the honour of the female sex, to have originated
We had been sauntering slowly down Regent Street during this
The trial of peers, or of any person impeached by the Commons, has been
and there she made a very poisonous apple. Outside it looked pretty,
And yet no farther than a wanton's bird,
seriously, and his mind was prepared for just such an end as did
under the three large oak-trees; the nut-trees are just below. You
give his consent, and said, "It is not safe in there. I fear it would
pluck them one after the other. And she brought a whole apronful down
Old Woman with white hair, who beckoned to her kindly.
"At a pastry-cook's shop
heart of that crawling bank. The cloud was within fifty yards of
ugly ones, it was a popular tradition that they had changed eyes.
Frankland _v_. Regina will bring the matter before the attention
little house had changed into a splendid palace, a royal table had been
come in?" I asked.
the presentiment a hopeful one; but as a writer in the _Cornhill
_Mercutio._ Alas, poor Romeo! he is already dead;
thumb-ring."
more skillful, and might search as she liked, but the golden apples
_Paris._                         Monday, my lord.
editors to "Do." Ulrici considers it the old third person plural in
he could easily guess what had happened, and much grief reigned in the
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
"There were many insignificant sums to individuals, and a large
detectives is helpless."
Then he took bear-skins and covered himself and his horse with them, so
"Proceed," I said; "herein is the Amontillado.  As for Luchesi--"
the plough-wheel, and when they got to the Glass Mountain they thrust
191. _Lord_, etc. Cf. Brooke's poem:--
"Yes, it is."
_Capulet._ Go, nurse, go with her; we'll to church to-morrow.
And now the third brother wanted to take his cat to the right man. He
"Father, break off for me the first branch which knocks against your
Then he went back, and thought, "What a good thing it was that I
37. _I am proverb'd_, etc. The old proverb fits my case, etc. _To hold
quadrisyllable. See p. 159 above.
"It belongs to King Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would have
warders watch every road and every station, but they've had no
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
"But I do. If you have any influence with Sir Henry, take him
Then they danced and skipped and leapt over chairs and benches. At
"Then the father said, 'And you, my dearest Child, how much do you love
of wine and to congratulate me."
obedient, and will stay in the right path, and not run about after
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
to live here, and I felt that he should be warned of the danger
observe that the words are not gummed on in an accurate line, but
just been alluded to: the compression of the action, which in the story
"But what do you intend to do?"
it was ready she could not wait until it was set on the table, but took
all these riches?"
morning, and I tell you the direction of my suspicions, however
_law_, and the _sea_ succeed each other in both speeches, in the same
_Juliet._                        Blister'd be thy tongue          90
On the same day, however, that she cast out Rapunzel, the Witch, in the
[Illustration]
which warped and left a little crack which no one noticed.
keeping the appointment?"
'Tis now near night.
Sherwood's English-French supplement to Cotgrave (ed. 1632): "That will
man to be respected and even feared.  He prided himself on his
dollars.
[_Exeunt._
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
the matter it does not lie with my husband but with me, for whose
So she took it out and put it on, and went up into the castle, and
The townes folks harts that welnigh all to fryer Lawrence ronne.
that he was a detective and that I was to say nothing about him
love to her, as you have yourself observed. I repeat that the
or run any risk for that end. His first act was to establish
desperate fellow. We shall take him by surprise and have him at
turtledoves. And at last all the birds beneath the sky came whirring
extreme generosity had won the affection and respect of all who
even as the hope had gone out of our souls. Holmes groaned, and
straitjacket. What's the matter with me, anyhow? You've lived
weary ear," etc. We still use _hindmost_, _topmost_, etc.
Red Death. His vesture was dabbled in  _blood_--and his broad brow, with
field. "Ah, ha, just in time!" said the barber. So he took his basin
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
71 below the second syllable of _Capulets_ and the second _the_ are both
COPYRIGHT, 1904 AND 1907, BY
and Conrad was forced to run after it. When he came back, her hair had
such, as by praisyng our beautie, you think to bring into a fooles
"The better to hear you with, my Child," was the reply.
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
And soundly too;--your houses!
advice, of which he took no heed. He came to the two inns. His brother
"I bring nothing, I want something given me."
posted yesterday evening. Have you yesterday's _Times_, Watson?"
than London; and though fires are very frequent, they seldom do so much
considerable burglaries in the west country, for none of which
hound, and so on. It is said to be heard at night upon the moor.
"Will you go with me to my palace and be my dear wife?"
Love is a smoke rais'd with the fume of sighs;
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
THE SHOES THAT WERE DANCED TO PIECES                             338
Set thy seal-manual on my wax-red lips."
she was so called because she steals new-born infants, and leaves
the Medoc."
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine
when he came to the end of it, in the plain before him was a fine
shining eyes. A few minutes later we had reached the lodge-gates,
My fingers itch.--Wife, we scarce thought us blest
when Two-Eyes thought that Three-eyes was fast asleep, she used her
Poor living corse, clos'd in a dead man's tomb!          [_Exit._
"But I understand that it is something more modern and practical
am I as badly puzzled a man as any in this county. Just tell me
went out at once and bought a pair of boots?"
not mark me.
"mouse-hunt" (given to flirtation and intrigue) in his bachelor days;
Pretty little Cock,
not giving the count a definite answer just then. The girl, he says, is
There was once a man who had seven sons, but never a daughter no matter
_Lady Capulet._             Good night;
The First Servant Came With a Dish of Delicate Fare              258
With so fast fixed eye, perhaps thou mayst beholde:
secret journey of the butler to the western lattice window.
_Enter_ Nurse
Shall I send to thee?
And as she was thus drinking and leaning right over the stream, the
have suffered! I should never have got home again from the great wild
knew, but she remained as mute as a fish. As she was so beautiful, the
with gold; and the third brother came home with the greatest treasure
weakness and baseness of her confidante is the moment which reveals her
36. _Like._ Likely; as often.
Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
before he became famous, and every one wanted to have a new coat made
lying who had come so horribly to his end.
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
"I know it because I have seen with my own eyes the messenger who
1 _Servingman._ Away with the joint-stools, remove the court-cupboard,
is broken and by what. The cloud of night is broken up, by Day, which
"_Fret_ means primarily the rippling of the cloud--as sea by wind;
And found no leaves, so went without,
man; but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks
As Schmidt remarks, the modern distinction of _compliment_ and
was cool and pleasant within it, whilst the sun shone hotly, the two
wench.  And while the revellers stood aghast at the fury of
"About four feet high."
But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door--
That gentleman and lady have called to a coachman to take them home; and
When it was evening, she seated herself in a small tree, and made up
order that she may not miss her way," he added, "I will take a bag of
perhaps, in _T. of S._ iv. 1. 170: "What, do you grumble? I'll be with
ancient books are always printed in the margin. Lastly, this _book of
breast when it was once more on the land! How quickly the cock
wish, she came forth, and on this all the Ravens were restored to their
him down an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty
A King had a daughter who was beautiful beyond all measure, but so
here, and you could not celebrate him without being known
_Benvolio._ For what, I pray thee?
awe with which the mad assumptions of the mummer had inspired the whole
At the supposed sudden death of their daughter the parents naturally
hound which leaves material footmarks and fills the air with its
came with the salad and she also was longing for it, she said, "I don't
_Enter_ ROMEO
your servant."
"But it is a very singular thing," Dr. Mortimer remarked. "I
2.  The Monument.
With these words the Fox again stretched out his tail, and the King's
In two hours he took her home. There was great joy in the castle when
"Take care," said Joringel, "that you do not go too near the castle."
flowers, fruit, and vegetables of all sorts; the beauty and gaiety of the
When the King saw that he arose in amazement, and went and embraced the
baronet's teeth, and two frightened eyes were looking up at us.
argue against its taste or propriety. The warmth and vivacity of
lady's skull and says: "she has a somewhat grave look with her." Cf.
He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes and cried, "Why do you
at the text from the "stand-point" of the critic rather than that of the
THE SHOES THAT WERE DANCED TO PIECES
feel some genuine grief; but their conventional wailing (iv. 5) belongs
am Stapleton, of Merripit House."
32. _Cousin._ The "uncle Capulet" of i. 2. 70. The word was often used
43. _An alligator stuff'd._ This was a regular part of the furniture of
exchanged it for the Wishing-Table.
to table for he was so ragged and torn, that they would all be ashamed
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
Marina, in _Pericles_, is only fifteen at the end of the play; and
with smoke or _reek_. Cf. _reechy_ (another form of the same word) in
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
You have lost one of your boots, you say?"
strawberries!"
_Montague._ Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;          210
The girl stepped into the dark entrance, and knocked at the door of the
_Romeo._ Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
appeared in the balcony at the rear of the old English stage. "The scene
"With Grethel."
With open outcry toward our monument.
hope to pay."
unlearned foole: But doctor of divinitie proceeded he in schoole.
_Benvolio._ My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
42: "That rids our dogs of languish." On the passage cf. Brooke:--
We apples are all ripe!_"
belonged to one of those old savages who dwelt in the burrows on
189. _Use._ See on ii. chor. 10 above.
"Yes," I said, "for the love of God!"
"I do not know what to believe."
facts in my possession I felt that either my intelligence or my
a hall! a hall!" and Jonson, _Tale of a Tub_: "Then cry, a hall! a
gun and shoot into the midst of them. They will let the cloak fall down
your mercy!"
following note.
and is lighted by an upper tier of windows; lantern-towers of this kind
a rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
Juliet goes to her chamber, and drinks the potion on _Tuesday_ evening,
country practitioner who does a great deal of his visiting on
13. _Alone._ When alone; opposed to _society_ below.
with gold.
had, indeed, instituted divorce proceedings against her husband
more gold pieces.
148. _Chop-logic._ Sophist; used by S. only here.
121. _Rearward._ Cf. Sonn. 90. 6:--
Her heart would surely break in two!_"
share it.
only envious, because Two-Eyes alone had been able to get the fruit.
the foot-pavement is frequently so slippery, that they often fall and are
soul.
It is one and the same feeling that commences, goes through, and ends
that had happened. She knew nothing about it, and sought the key, but
Mortimer will never see his pet again. Well, I do not know that
It was for this reason that he took her to London with him. They
Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say
begin to ascend, so that hereafter no one should be able to say, "I
German commentator has tried to make S. a Parsee.
be very busy and attentive for a little while; but when no one watched
THE SEVEN RAVENS
Then they went all the way down, and when they were at the bottom, they
to supply whole cities with water, and even to send it up into the
rid of our Prince so quickly."
which added to the goose proves thee far and wide
seventh Dwarf slept with his companions, one hour with each, and so got
end of Mincing Lane, to the west end of Leadenhall Street; passing to
yet full xvi. yeres;" and in Paynter's novel "as yet shee is not
_Juliet._ That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
_Nurse._ Marry, that, I think, be young Petruchio.
"_Looking-Glass, Looking-Glass, on the wall,
honestly convinced that a dreadful fate overhung his family, and
back, the elder was at the left, and the younger at the right, and
At length they came to a bee's nest, in which there was so much honey,
play--some of them very bad--which Shakespeare left unchanged when he
is beaten fine, drive it thin with a rowling pin, and so lay it on a
became hushed and one's spirit subdued. A dim line of ancestors,
and v. 3. 284 below.
"What then?"
But Two-Eyes knew what was in Three-Eyes' mind, and drove the goat into
To describe the sweet boy,
running with great speed down the other side, springing over the
67. _Cover._ "A quibble on the law phrase for a married woman, who is
the back of your head."
well knew.  When they had brought her to the Hall the
19. _Yon grey._ See on ii. 4. 44 above.
three possible courses. He might claim the property from South
Watson, has been brought upon your head by your expression as you
delighted in its brightness, and wanted to pluck out a few hairs. Then
open country, trusting in the good God.
one of the moorland shepherds taking out his father's dinner."
There is no monument more worthy of the sight,
"Well," said the huntsman, "this is wonderful. It has come to pass just
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto;
that a careful comparison of what are evidently the earliest portions
Then the wicked woman uttered a curse, and was so wretched, so utterly
A long time ago, there lived a King who was famed for his wisdom
Then the Flounder said to him: "Hark, you Fisherman, I pray you, let me
pleasure-boats are gliding up and down the river with their gay
being able to divide the soule, but not the beauty from her body."
forwarded during these early days to Sherlock Holmes. Now,
_tete-a-tete_. By the way, your instructions to me never to allow
I strike at it with my partisan?"
But I must once more tell of the King and Queen, who had journeyed
work, found no rest, but full of care, tossed about in his bed.
your bottle. I am so hungry and thirsty."
stranger who was pursuing me. He was a small, slim, clean-shaven,
be, I felt that the responsibility of keeping them to myself
animal, I myself will take you to feed."
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
occurred even as is here set forth. And I would have you
"I must carry a token away with me," and broke off a twig from one of
When the girl was fifteen, the old woman became ill, called the child
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
care to accompany me to Coombe Tracey. At first he was very eager
and came to the woman's house. Then she said to the man's daughter:
again, and carries it from door to door, time enough for her customers to
no need.                                                          10
him welcome, and invited him to sit and eat with them, for otherwise he
without a ruler, and would choose one of themselves to be King.
matter; but when Antonio enters, it rises at once to the higher level of
At last, he sailed to an island, and it luckily happened that no cats
"No, we have no news of any kind," said Dr. Mortimer in answer to
As that is desperate which we would prevent.                      70
No one knew him, but the Bird began to sing, the Horse began to eat,
is notified of the change in the time for the wedding, as he is to
begged a last favor of the King.
road in front of us grew bleaker and wilder over huge russet and
while in _Cor._ and _A. and C._ there are only about 40 each, in the
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.--
ruddy tweed suit--the very one which he had worn on the first
We may infer that Capulet had not been married before, though, as he
"I say, Watson," said the baronet, "what would Holmes say to
the bugle-horns I feel as if I must jump out of my skin."
"The dream may have been true," said the King. "I will give you a piece
"Open the window, then! You have been at your club all day, I
out."
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore
Little Man, and in his anger he stamped his right foot so deep into the
justification.
and well, and said that they should very much like to get out to warm
dance, and never stops until he lies on the ground and prays for fair
The references to Dowden in the notes are to his recent and valuable
19. _Enpierced._ Used by S. nowhere else.
a soft, pleasant voice, but your voice is rough. You are the Wolf!"
divided into many tenements. The garden has disappeared, having been
a rock not far off. Directly afterward they heard a loud, piteous cry.
to make a fire under the tree, and suffocate the bees in order to take
"Benvolio presents a triple alternative: either to withdraw to a private
the moor. There is an opening between two trees which enables one
_L. L. L._ iii. 1. 182: "This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid;" and
Then the turner said, "If you do not give back the Little Table that
Then the girl obeyed, and put on the paper frock, and went out with the
A low moan had fallen upon our ears. There it was again upon our
of bread and covered with cakes, but that the windows were of clear
Hath been my cousin!--O sweet Juliet,
and likewise began to howl loudly.
wrong of him to sleep, and suffer thieves to do as they please; and so it
what to do. She had no idea how straw could be spun into gold; and she
that he no longer thought of anything else, and saw things as she saw
but there is no reason why the word should not have its ordinary
inundation of mistemper'd humour."
But Haensel comforted her, and said, "Just wait a little, until the
Juliet's Chamber," "An open Gallery to Juliet's Chamber overlooking the
building; and fire-proof rooms are provided on each floor, where the
of it; and then he pulled him up.
fellow who did not deserve ill-treatment. The blower stopped a little
"Yes; he once came down to visit Sir Charles. He is a man of
If this your tender Mother knew,
"Into his own hands?" I asked.
I wish you and I had been there too!
Meat and drink for the seven years were carried into the tower; and
DOCTOR KNOWALL                                                   257
Then he took out a precious chain, put it round her neck, and fastened
39.  Guy Fawkes in Effigy.
which is said to have plagued the family so sorely ever
make out."
running across the fields after this young man? Is that seemly?" At the
me for mine own what first meets you on your return home. But if you
and the immediate transition from rapture to despair has a most powerful
morning, but no sound of any sort did we hear except the chiming
This is confirmed by allusions to the weather and other natural
_1 Musician._ Not a dump we; 'tis no time to
the door. They cried, "Come in," and she entered the room and seated
out of the wall of fog.
The soldier, who had watched everything, tarried no longer, put on his
"The better to eat you with!" And scarcely had the Wolf said this, than
The soldiers awoke, rushed in, and took him off to prison. The next
house in order to entice them there. When a child fell into her power,
The Count told them what wonderful thing he had seen by the well, and
31:--
To discover the deed,
the yard, the Hound behind the door, the Cat upon the hearth near the
had gone, for I am already aware that she is the one person in
the moor than anywhere else until the hue and cry was over, so he
certainly have to walk for an hour, but what will that signify to you?
but I must be Emperor, too."
swiftly abreast, taking that course which the maid must
the time.
_Lady Capulet._ Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
near it stood two baskets, which were filled with wild apples and pears.
insignificant fate compared with that which threatens her--banishment
in the old eds. of S. only in v. 1. 10 below. _Ay me!_ is found thirty
done the day before, and had left none.
to clear away.
69. _Have at thee._ Cf. iv. 5. 119 below; also _C. of E._ iii. 1. 51,
unutterable horror at finding the grave cerements and corpse-like mask,
"See," said the man, "you are fit for no sort of work. I have made a
IRON JOHN                                                        105
to the Hall and to the scene of action. We did not drive up to
"That seems the most reasonable theory," said Stapleton, and he
power and was dreaded by all the world.
(Daniel).
"But are you sure of this, Holmes? How do you know that the woman
Blow Conrad's little hat away,
This is a most welcome lad to many a tradesman, when he brings good
"Do you know then what time it is?" asked the Old Woman.
Though its answer little meaning--little relevancy bore;
crept into it. When the fox came home, he was met by two great eyes
_Patient Grissel_, 1603: "yet don is the mouse, lie still;" and Steevens
he had overcome his amazement and his disappointment. He looked
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east.
had walked for a short time, the forest seemed to be more and more
Benvolio says to his friends:--
This old dame in her youth, had nurst her with her mylke,
find such a flower. He sought until the ninth day, and then, early in
marked in the earlier as in the later plays. The second scene of the _M.
shall be very glad to have you back safe and sound in Baker
34.
One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
"Then you use me, and yet do not trust me!" I cried with some
preparations so that he might have a refuge. That is where he
There was once an old castle in the midst of a large and thick forest,
out into the courtyard in the form of a Donkey.
her all, just as it had happened, and begged her not to go thither,
orders, with a Banknote, or bill to be regularly paid: also to every
capable of outgrowing the precarious period of infancy.[8] This is not
then shut up, it got the secondary sense it has here.
all the rest of his life.
_Il Pens._ 145: "With such consort as they keep," etc. "The _consorts_
109. _Nor I look'd not._ See on iii. 5. 21 above.
Lark, and promised to give the Lion whatsoever should first meet him on
"A sweet face, an exceeding daintie hand:
"The brute! The brute!" I cried with clenched hands. "Oh Holmes,
When he came back she had finished combing her hair and was putting
however, grew daily greater. At length she took a cauldron, set it on
dead."
him and have no notion of his errand, this accidental souvenir
Then he went back and said to Grethel, "Be comforted, dear little
The Stapletons of Merripit House
"he is indited to dinner."
The Montagewes and Capelets hath moved so to ruth,
'superfluous complication,' as if, down to this day, every Romeo had not
_Lunnun_."
good idea what the point was which was under discussion. After a
oxen with a load of wood to town, and sold it to a doctor for two
For exile hath more terror in his look,
you have ever been before, only you must promise to give me the young
and the beautiful maiden left off weeping. The King, astonished, asked,
the ground, and rolled straight into the water. The King's Daughter
237. _Siege._ Cf. the same image in i. 1. 209.
and began to fetch water, and did not go once only, but many times, out
it was a branch which he had fastened to a withered tree which the wind
runs round the hall, but that it is resumed upon the farther
in every respect."
33. _Affray._ Startle from sleep; as Chaucer in _Blaunche the Duchess_
the article; but the plural in v. 3. 127: "the Capels' monument." S.
Three-Eyes, for not speaking the truth.
"_Flounder, Flounder in the sea,
explain this is to assume that it means "the bell ordinarily used for
park.
"Ah," she answered, "I am to look for a basketful of strawberries, and
ne'er be mended?" _2 Hen. VI._ i. 4. 17: "To this gear the sooner the
confidences.
its mouth, which it laid on the shore at the youth's feet. When he had
futurity I have always regarded as a circumstance particularly
_L. L. L._ there are about 1100 rhyming verses (about one-third of the
handkerchief." Then the golden hair streamed forth, and let the boy
See what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
he rode right amongst the pots, so that they were all broken into a
in its clutches. It's a bad place, the great Grimpen Mire."
Silver and gold throw over me!_"
at the reflection of his face on the surface of the water. And as he
freeze.
the turtledoves. And at last all the birds beneath the sky came
of them were destined to travel together round the world before
about the woman whom he had loved. But the shock of the night's
until the perspiration streamed down his cross and gloomy face.
and said to the cook, "Here is a fine duck. Pray kill her."
_Balthasar._ Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
antithetical exuberance of language is defended by Schlegel on strong
one's rest_ was a phrase taken from gaming, the _rest_ being the highest
"It's no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in
When he came to the castle he found everything as the Fox had said. The
When, after long journeying, they came into another country, they tried
With blue of heaven's own tinct," etc.
quite on one ear. Then the master said to him, "Gracefully! gracefully!
_Gregory._ No, for then we should be colliers.
Nay, if you go on where the ice is so thin,
conduct of Colonel Upwood in connection with the famous card
are said by admiring critics there, to be very charming, of exceptional
I'll have a row of electric lamps up here inside of six months,
But soon their skins turned cold, for there came a
I am not a very sound sleeper, and since I have been on guard in
resolved, precluded the idea of risk.  I must not only punish, but
went onward again until she came to the Glass Mountain. The door was
descriptions agreed. When I learned that the missing man was
accounts which have reached us he is an excellent fellow in every
26. _Young men._ Malone compares _Sonn._ 98. 2:--
but appears the more heavy and gloomy from its confined situation.
of Juliet, and the calmer and more maidenly fondness of Miranda, might
Whilst he was thus walking full of thought, he met a small Tabby-Cat
been equally devoted to festive joy, and extreme misery.  Here, in the
suggested the epithets.
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
melancholy. We were admitted by a strange, wizened, rusty-coated
for me to go to Dartmoor."
not get to his cave, for the Bear was already close.
rode at the head of the soldiers.
"Exactly."
He made you for a highway to my bed,
"_Oh, shake me! Shake me!
morning, so that he soon had his honest living again, and at last
may go away without any anxiety."
piercing eyes turned upon us through the side window of the cab.
Capulet; on the ground that the Nurse is not present, having been sent
But by and by comes back to Romeo,
_Juliet._                        By and by, I come.--
That thou expect'st not, nor I look'd not for.
important information."
Haensel and Grethel sat by the fire, and when noon came, each ate a
Westmoreland."
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
Pretty little Cock,
"No," said the man; "there is only a little stunted kitchen-girl which
been a delightful life.
_Juliet._ My only love sprung from my only hate!                 140
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
will make amends for the wrong I have done, and ransom myself with a
at the outset of the piece, the stigma of inconstancy, it becomes, if
The wall it will not break,
Juliet was not holding forth. How demure is her real answer: 'Ay,
midst of all the vehemence with which she calls upon the night to bring
"Perfectly sound!" said Holmes.
If I did stay to look on his intents.
"It's moving towards us, Watson."
simile is not over-bold for him. The commentators often err in looking
"Then let me have the private ones." He leaned back, put his
On the upper floor, however, one of the bedroom doors was locked.
Steevens says that he has met with the alligator, tortoise, etc.,
played nervously over the stops of her typewriter.
"Good-bye, Hans."
77. _Was I with you_, etc. Was I even with you, have I paid you off? as,
183. _Quit._ Requite, reward. Cf. _Ham._ v. 2. 68, 280, etc.
"I recommend, sir, that you take a cab, call off your spaniel who
up old Levi gets early in the morning, and rambles about from street to
_Romeo._ Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or
"Oh, no," cried the host, quite humbly, "I will gladly bring out
eyes to sleep by using a charm, but luckily the one in my forehead kept
of the tall, black-bearded figure, his shoulders rounded as he
be free. But whenever an innocent maiden came within this circle, she
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
all the time?' He, however, answered, 'I did the best of all, and it
But Capilet himselfe hath byd vnto his feast:
because it had belonged to his forefathers, else he might have divided
the elder was at the right side and the younger at the left, and the
many individuals in the crowd who had found leisure to become aware of
Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
My friend leaned a little forward and his expression became
"I knew that Barrymore walked about nights, and I had a mind to
See also _Ham._ v. 2. 162.
words.
swallow so much as you coarse, greedy folk. I had just driven the wedge
selling the commodities of the drapers of London, and clothiers of
also in the quotation from Brooke in note on iii. 5. 212 above.
On this she ran swiftly away, and came to the Stars, which were kind
_Romeo._ What is her mother?
with their little fingers, that the shoemaker could not turn away his
etc.: "counterfeit pieces of money, being brasse, and covered over with
Then Clever Elsie took the pitcher from the wall, went into the cellar,
ashamed at having to stand there like a liar.
crazed with fear before ever he began to run."
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
which has fallen into the fountain."
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
large fortune in litigation. He fights for the mere pleasure of
one," said he. "Have you no other daughter?"
The Dove said to her, "For seven years must I fly about the world, but
your own industry will be encouraged by a protective tariff, but
The man's heart grew heavy, and he did not wish to go. He said to
most delightful scene.  The Londoners cannot take a country walk whenever
"Carry away the cloak, it is a Wishing-Cloak. When you throw it over
44. _Day in the hour._ The hyperbole is explained by what follows.
She said that early to-morrow morning, when Father was out hunting, she
Charles, for I also had a thousand pounds left to me."
_Juliet._ 'Tis but thy name that is my enemy;
So Hans went thither, and did what he was bidden, and when he had
leaf on the trees, saw the birds which flew past, and the midges which
The King's Son began, and dug and shovelled without leaving off. But
with his servants, and when they had walked two miles they saw a man
"Oh, John, John, have I brought you to this? It is my doing, Sir
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
"Where is the knife, Hans?"
The captain said, "We ought not to have let ourselves be frightened out
whole countryside seems to have been out to see me do my
music_" (Elson). Cf. _A.Y.L._ i. 2. 150, etc.
"You will visit each of these in turn."
routine of life over here."
Dost thou not laugh?
_Capulet._ Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone.
effect.  To the right and left, in the middle of each wall, a tall and
"A dabbler in science, Mr. Holmes, a picker up of shells on the
loved to dominate and surprise those who were around him. Partly
"What sort of facts?" I asked.
in the corner of a prosaic railway-carriage, and yet as I looked
us a larger house. I should like to live in a great stone castle. Go to
They went on and came to a great lake whereon stood twelve little
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
all the bedrooms opened. My own was in the same wing as
my friend's questions. "I can swear to one thing, and that is
30. _Conceit._ Conception, imagination. Cf. _Ham._ iii. 4. 114: "Conceit
Daniel's ed.]
you were so pressing that Sir Charles should destroy this letter
desire is to restore to the children as large a collection as possible
_Juliet._                        At what o'clock to-morrow
[Picture: New milk from the cow]
[Picture: The milkmaid]
phenomena in the play. At the beginning of act iii, for instance,
What say ye all now?_"
occurred."
"We will soon drive him out," said the bear, and went with him to the
innocence would come to light."
of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour onto our faces, while a
cobblestones, and the apples and pears are as heavy as lead! I can
"What misfortune has happened then?" asked he.
ground. It seemed to us to be a postscript at the end of the
keen, grey eyes, set closely together and sparkling brightly from
ESCALUS, prince of Verona.
it partially in its destined position.  But now there came from out the
"We are not much better off tonight. Again, there was no direct
"on stage;" but the Puritans did not altogether disapprove of plays that
anticipates his misfortunes. "The ideas drawn from the _stars_, the
"Surely you will stay and have some dinner?"
So she had something to say against every one. But she made herself
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
"Mrs. Lyons!"
conclusions from my own observations.
v. 1. 286: "you have given me life and living," etc.
without stopping him.
for the late Sir Charles Baskerville and some other kind hearts I
[_They fight._
what is the joke in _give you the minstrel_. Some suppose that _gleek_
Of what conditions we shall stand upon."
separate syllable, the _e_ is retained; as in _moved_, line 85, of the
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
Then he sent for the cook, and commanded him to make a fire under the
"My dear Watson, you were born to be a man of action. Your
Romeo, thus gathering together all the threads of this love entanglement
oven, and kneaded the dough." She pushed poor Grethel out to the oven,
"And how much was the residue?"
40. _Dun's the mouse._ Apparently = keep still; but no one has
"Yes, sir, he is still with us."
In the markets to be sold:
ran a race with his daughter and won the victory, should be her
like a ghost at the farther end.
S. follows Brooke's poem:--
But the old King, when he saw that his daughter did nothing but mock
as agile and restless as the antennae of an insect.
Hath put a spirit of youth in every thing."
after it.
Then the six conveyed the riches home, divided it amongst them, and
thousand cages.
I had the further motive that Baskerville Hall, as the paper
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs.
were children, and then went into the house with her daughter. The
John Rennie, Esq.  It consists of three immense arches.  The centre arch
could not bring himself to have the maiden beaten. After that he went
84. _Ambuscadoes._ Ambuscades; used by S. only here. The _Spanish
To work at such a dirty trade."
64. _Contrary._ The adjective is accented by S. on the first or second
door.
excursion could not be kept secret. The probability was,
65. _Appertaining rage_, etc. That is, the rage appertaining to
the good ones, and thought to himself, "This shall help me to get my
unscrupulousness, is drawn with a kind of humour.
heartily.
Break it when you are in great need."
all the accounts which you have been so good as to give of my own
like this, but retaining traces of the original form), _The Two
sang a little mocking song to him:
"I have heard it."
Merripit House next Friday as a sign of it.
3. _Flecked._ Spotted, dappled; used by S. nowhere else.
away. But in the bathroom they had made a fire of such deadly heat,
They agreed that until that time, he should come to her every evening,
Ada and her mother, if she will accept it from you. I thought the
_scrape a trencher_, cf. _Temp._ ii. 2. 187: "Nor scrape trencher, nor
_Mercutio._                      And so did I.                    50
_Lady Capulet._ What is the matter?
_2d Musician_: iv. 5(6). Whole no. 6.
When they came quite up to the little House they saw that it was built
It is not only the outside of this fine building that commands attention,
since I had seen her I was in no hurry to leave it, and that if
AVGVST THE 27,
grew alarmed. She went out to seek him, and as he had often told her
hale and light-hearted friends from among the knights and dames of his
Barrymores go we have found the motive of their actions, and that
"He is the son of the old caretaker, who is dead. They have
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
Run to my study.--By and by!--God's will,
Mid-Devon at the next election, has cast a gloom over the
Buy my water-cresses green.
"What! is that _Lunnun_, coachey?  Well, I'm glad to see it at last; for
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.--
he had saved, swam up to him, dived down, and brought the key out of
Myself condemned and myself excus'd.
"And then?"
seven Dwarfs who dug and delved in the mountains for ore. They lit
this? How about that hour of darkness in which the power of evil
have a mighty fine home and nothing to do."
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
called the relations together.
198. _Hour._ Metrically a dissyllable; as in ii. 5. 11 above. Cf.
it 140 feet, the extreme arches 130 feet.  The roadway is nearly level,
"And how do you propose to do so?"
them and began to stitch, sew, and hammer so skilfully and so quickly
I can very well give my little shirt away," and took it off, and gave
55. _A man of wax._ "As pretty as if he had been modelled in wax"
"That is unlikely. There was no mark on any of them, as far as I
the other twain were but broken men for the rest of their
of the track. Her face was beautifully flushed with her exertions
silver and the mallet of copper. So he chopped the wood small.
Give me a case to put my visage in; [_Putting on a mask_]
may pass, but take care you do not again let anything get in."
her.
by the distant pools which lay amid the great Grimpen Mire. There
so that gluttony was alleged by some as the cause of the fire; it
the other early eds. "Abraham Cupid." Upton conjectured "Adam Cupid,"
Charles's footmarks were easily traced down the alley.
window; it will taste sweet."
He, by her father's will, was now her dear companion and husband. Then
_1st Musician_: iv. 5(16). Whole no. 16.
would have none of her--he wanted the King's Daughter.
connection with that of your friend. You interest me very much,
and the rest began also _pick, pick, pick, pick,_ and gathered all the
on her and gave her wooden shoes. "Just look at the proud Princess,
"When she was fifteen years old, the King summoned all three sisters
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence' cell.
And I, for winking at your discords too,
ran over him, and said, "Go at once. I wish to be like unto God."
Which modern lamentation might have mov'd?                       120
large and beautiful castle.
But the father wished to satisfy himself, and went down to the stable,
visiting such houses for money as were deemed out of their bounds, that
Shall have the chinks.
see it is not only peasants who can carry things, I will take your
"Were they on the same side of the path as the moor-gate?"
his Variorum ed. gives "Adam," but he now prefers "Abraham" = the young
The girl went up, and when she had shaken the beds and put clean sheets
as it was called. Cf. _M.W._ iv. 5. 7: "his standing-bed and
which our author too frequently counteracts his own pathos."
The mother and the two sisters were terrified and became pale with
rhyme.
19.  Nosegays.
this fair, from a resort of business, became a meeting of pleasure.  It
"Exactly."
have emptied a dish of lentils into the ashes for you. If you have
lived.
See also ii. 4. 2 below.
For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
The Old Woman then said, "Now we must have the bird's heart, he will
waves. And yet in the midst of the sky, there was still a small bit of
her room, don't forget to say 'Good morning,' and don't stop to peep
ray."
you."
come up."
saw it by day? It must be confessed that the natural explanation
A poor woodcutter lived with his wife and three daughters in a little
three times cried, "_to-whoo, to-whoo, to-whoo!_"
"Go to her, and you will find her back again in the dirty hovel."
heart, manifesting itself in changes of colour,
Despair filled her heart anew, but the dream led her a third time
it, and to excuse herself said, "I fell asleep when I was out."
"Husband," said she, "why are you standing there? Now, I am Emperor,
"Ah," said the man, "I did catch you, and my wife says I really ought
off. If I could lay my hands upon that man, then at last we might
away from the mother and sister.
I would have made you four tall fellows skip like rats."
beneath the hazel-tree, and cried:
"He was running, Watson--running desperately, running for his
to send it by registered post to Baker Street."
masters. These hags are mentioned in the works of William of Auvergne,
up the heart of the bird. The girl had to take it away secretly and
because I was a baronet I could do what I liked? If he had not
home. "Good evening, Mother."
In one of Romeo's speeches in the interview with Friar Laurence after
"_Alas! young Queen, how ill you fare!
INTRODUCTION
end, and the tailor had eaten up all his bread, so after all his heart
_Sheepshanks_, or _Laceleg_?" but he always answered, "That is not my
Retorts it. Romeo he cries aloud,
To the great joy of the King, they were brought back. And as a
charitable soul had given her. She was, however, good and pious.
whole night through, and in the morning they told it to their lord.
the whole forest through, and do not give up until ye have found all
I shrugged my shoulders. "If he were safely out of the country it
The Wild Man turned back, took him up, set him on his shoulder, and
_Benvolio._ Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
the unbending corn" to Tennyson's Olivia in _The Talking Oak_:--
power of scent. We owe you a deep apology, Sir Henry, for having
scullery boy, because he had forgotten something, let him go, and went
"It is all the same to me," answered the woman, "I shall soon get rid
do not differ merely in expressiveness and effect; they embody different
"His wife!" she cried.
Upstairs they waited for the boy, but as he did not return, the man
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
returned a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence.
And in her stead affections lewd, and fancies highly placed.
to set out and fetch the father and mother of the girl to the marriage
as he strode.
turn so pale? Why should she fight against every admission until
police know that he is still on the moor. They have given up the
Was emptied quite; and they whose wrath no wisdom could asswage,
There they go! from Blackfriars' Bridge, through Westminster Bridge, to
very nearly what S. wrote on the revision of the play.
frightened, and in their terror ran out of the palace.
"_The Jew_,... representing the greedinesse of worldly chusers, and the
start our speculation. Now, you would call it a guess, no doubt,
_2 Musician._ Hang him, Jack!--Come, we'll in
was not.  It was necessary to hear and see and touch him to be _sure_
than words. But he has never let us get together and it was only
"My friend, no.  It is not the engagement, but the severe cold with
To prison, eyes, ne'er look on liberty!
thirsty for the beer, the man said to the boy, "Just go down into the
skirts.  On their breasts and backs they wear the king's silver badge of
62. _When that._ This use of _that_ as a "conjunctional affix" is
The words were hardly out of my mouth when we both saw him. Over
rushing down slopes, heading always in the direction whence those
_Friar Laurence._ Now must I to the monument alone;
second chamber was purple in its ornaments and tapestries, and here the
were half a mile from the house, and still that dense white sea,
"I am spinning," said the Old Woman, and nodded her head.
Act II                                                    58
watchful Barrymore know more than he cared to say? It was all dim
We must not forget that it _is_ a soliloquy, "breathed out in the
"This poor wretch was dressed in your clothes. I fear your
"Gallop apace, bright Phoebus, through the skie,
dead.
however, have been sufficiently punished by the misery in which you
Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
must have some quality!"
142. _Prodigious._ Portentous. Cf. _M.N.D._ v. 1. 419, _K. John_, iii.
afterthoughts. At the moment I was simply conscious that I was in
with intimate friends. Where, then, could he have been? Is it not
Juliet's soliloquy in iii. 3 is no less remarkable for its chaste and
"I am now from home, and out of that provision
was in him a certain wanton and cruel humour which made his
glass made, so that she might be seen from all sides. They laid her in
blocks of Portland stone, uniting strength with neatness.  It was eight
"what cross devil
One that you love.
ornaments that lay scattered to and fro or depended from the roof.
shone through heavy mullioned windows, and from the high chimneys
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee.
It strains me past the compass of my wits.
unlaced her, combed her hair, washed her with water and wine, but it
question he put to me several times, and always with a voice
_Romeo._ O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
Near the foot of Waterloo Bridge, in the Strand, stands
to the public was conducted with unusual grandeur, on the 18th of June,
_Paris._ Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew.
of it. It would have displeased us if Juliet had been represented as
was so pretty that the King could not contain himself for joy, and
killed, but that the huntsman had spared her life, and that she had run
but to me the reference to a tower in sight seems both forcible and
THE THREE BROTHERS
if the goat is taken proper care of, and driven where there is food."
A. Conan Doyle.
sensational investigations. I prayed, as I walked back along the
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
you remember to give them that message?"
"O for such means!
the baronet in order to convince the Stapletons that we were
Various other explanations have been suggested; but there is probably
which enabled me to fix the date."
have been respective," etc.
was twelve years old, the Witch shut her into a tower, which lay in
Then by the hand he drew the nedy man apart,
Then she opened the door of the small house. And when she had opened
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.          [_Exeunt._
and listened to it.
So thou wilt woo, but else not for the world.
13. _Made._ The 1st quarto has "maried," which is followed by some
But the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious. When his
holds the water, then I will again take a wife. But if it runs through,
him out. It needed but this to complete the grim suggestiveness
Both of them had time enough, but little to bite and to break. When
you saw were on the path and not on the grass?"
his work, he said to his wife, "Let my dinner be brought into the wood
"drink ... leave," and the folio "drink ... left."
"Nothing," said he, throwing it down. "It is a blank half-sheet
instance, iii. 5. 29 ("Some say the lark makes sweet division") appears
'Proud' and 'I thank you' and 'I thank you not,'
THE BLUE LIGHT
62. _Wherefore._ For the accent on the last syllable, cf. _M.N.D._ iii.
eaten something from my plate? Who has drunk out of my little glass? It
detaching his mind at will. For two hours the strange business in
_Tybalt._                        'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
nerves thrilled with anticipation when at last the cold wind upon
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
contraction of _chapman_. Cf. _1 Hen. VI._ ii. 3. 57: "a riddling
SCENE VI. _Friar Laurence's Cell_
"Now, listen to me, Barrymore! I have no interest in this matter
the same spot, for a series of years, have been enjoyed by the lowest
best inn, ordered himself handsome clothes, and then bade the landlord
enjoyed herself with it.
is so possessed with his suicidal purpose that he speaks of himself as
In the above enumeration, parts of lines are counted as whole lines,
reached the bedside of her father, than he and all the rest in the
the ball in his mouth, and threw it on the grass. The King's Daughter
conversation, and Dr. Mortimer, with his companion, had long
restrained my anger! I should have committed a great crime."
it is your duty), etc. Cf. ii. 4. 34 below.
"But not one like this, dear Father. If I say:
As I travell'd back to town,
Then the fisherman answered, "Of what use is a castle to me, if I have
The _reflection_ (if we take _reflex_ in that literal sense) is from
Its master had risen and was staring with flushed cheeks and
"By advising me as to what I should do with Sir Henry
world and go about a little. When his request was granted, he set out
together."
The rich girl was sitting in all her splendor before the door of her
furniture, and fitted up with the most beautiful things made of tin and
"Nothing."
Haensel reached up and broke off a little of the roof to try how it
own. He was in great distress, and when he lay down after his day's
If you have not had any report within the last few days it is
taller man. With a cry of surprise I pointed him out to the
_part_ to be = the sense of smell.
he sat lost in tobacco and thought.
This afternoon;
The following day, the King's Daughter again called to him that he was
watching intently. Then he gave a deep groan and with an
After a year had passed, when the Queen brought her first child into
he was a detective, and he offered me two guineas if I would do
And they lived thenceforth happily until their death.
Cross Hospital,' what further inferences may we draw?"
"You thought it might injure his reputation?"
The shoe is not too small for her,
dark veil, and glowed steadily in the centre of the black square
_Romeo._ Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
But there was no sign within it of that desperate and defiant
pressed it upon him."
try if they can lick their fingers.
which he received on the day of his death."
a pair of cobs was waiting. Our coming was evidently a great
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
and elaborate rather than an unfortunate lapse due to the excitement of
Put not another sin upon my head,
have given me. The lady who has passed here as Miss Stapleton is
"Shall we move farther back upon higher ground?"
or four feet of the retreating figure, when the latter, having attained
there of a hound? Where are the marks of its fangs? Of course we
With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit,
_Benvolio._ See, where he comes! So please you, step aside;
She dipped it in the well to wash the stains off, and it dropped out
injured wife, having resolved to wipe out her stain by death,
Proud can I never be of what I hate,
violet sky.
Then the King's Son left the forest, and walked by beaten and unbeaten
Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
carried home.
also _Macb._ ii. 2. 70: "Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us
giving?
_Matthew_, xix. 6. On the other hand, _part_ often = depart; as in
2. 129: "What tell you me of it? be it as it is;" _A. and C._ v. 2. 316:
It was the palace of many of our monarchs, as well as a place of defence.
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.--
"_Henry, the coach does break!_"
He had a baby in his beak that was as lovely as an angel, and stretched
247. _As this dire night._ This redundant use of _as_ in statements of
pointed out a chair on which she might sit. "You must have met with a
Then in an instant it was all clear to me. I remembered how the
"Behave well, Hans."
possible, I should think she was standing before me--you are like her
let it fall within.  There came forth in reply only a jingling of the
Emperor."
But more beautiful still is Snow-White, I ween._"
King's Daughter come here."
of his hole." So she shut one eye, and with the other looked straight
But thankful even for hate that is meant love.
have preluded the main story of the drama with the "superfluous
That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
attention to a case which certainly presents some features of
all in good part, only when they were too rough he called out, "Leave
So she bethought herself, and said:
what we have heard I don't feel as if I could give the man up, so
But not possess'd it, and, though I am sold,
ladies to wear daggers at their girdles.
the forest and went by the tower. Then he heard a song, which was so
seal;" _A. and C._ ii. 5. 32: "we use To say the dead are well," etc.
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
crisis comes, as it will do, I will direct how you shall act. I
Which you weep for.
criminal.
by Wehnert, has contributed its bit of folk phraseology. The Editor's
He told me Paris should have married Juliet;
not sure of your death, and have surrounded the wood with watchers, who
finished on the table, and then they ran quickly away.
Smit with the heauy newes, and so shut vp with sodain woe,
As will disperse itself through all the veins
remarks, the Friar "treats Romeo's utter want of self-control with a
_scorn_ without the preposition in _L. L. L._ iv. 3. 147: "How will he
what, from their point of view, is a desirable marriage. Capulet says
_Benvolio._ An if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.              20
The cat made merry with the mice in the royal palace, and killed so
_Juliet._ Madam, in happy time, what day is that?                110
the generous frankness of the giving, the timid drawing back, fearful of
"Where have you left Grethel?"
Then is the tombe of Juliet and Romeus her knight."
"Whither away, Hans?"
_2 Servant._ Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot
old folk-fictions, which have come down to us from the fresh and
"If you didn't see him, how do you know he was in the loft?"
As I remember, this should be the house.
against us. A serious epidemic broke out in the school and three
gateway in the town, through which, morning and evening, she had to
their best days" (Knight). Warton says that the Franciscans "managed the
The Hound of the Baskervilles
"I have no doubt that you would have had a more lively evening,"
shillings. You will then learn in possibly twenty cases out of
Fawkes was concealed, with a dark lantern and three matches.  He
her brothers had flown away over the forest in the shape of Swans. And
from the duel: "Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up--" but to no purpose;
most merit), many (other ladies)--and my daughter among them--may stand
Princess, and she secretly promised the butcher a piece of gold if he
Then he took the cabbages with him, climbed over the wall, and went
the chamber where the Bridegroom sleeps."
Maid of the West_: "Rouse, quoth the ship."
bright with beautiful hangings, and in the rooms were chairs and tables
the usual salutation. Cf. i. 2. 57 below.
soon afterward the Little Man came in, and asked, "Now, Mistress Queen,
_Montague._ Many a morning hath he there been seen,
this Clarke well replies: "It appears to us that, on the contrary, the
burst from its open mouth, its eyes glowed with a smouldering
As for us poor authors, we must adopt the plan of riding when we must,
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
defended the unfortunate Mme. Montpensier from the charge of
be the inn and the house of Dr. Mortimer, stood high above the
"Then perhaps you would mention that I propose to do so. We may
So the man went, and was quite unhappy because his wife wished to be
guess that to be the Something Hunt, the local hunt to whose
In the morning, when he awoke, the three days had passed, and a coach
some time, he said, "And now that you are King, let all else be, we
"Whither away, Hans?"
31. _Pretty fool._ On _fool_ as a term of endearment or pity, cf.
was there any lamp or candelabrum, amid the profusion of golden
reprinted in this country at my suggestion.
"See, the other moves also! Now, you rascal, do you deny that it
of view. When you pass Bradley's, would you ask him to send up a
3. On the repetition of _for_, cf. _A.W._ i. 2. 29: "But on us both did
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.--
well. So they lived on what she had earned as long as it lasted.
And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
BENVOLIO, nephew to Montague, and friend to Romeo.
"No."
15. _Soul._ For the play on the word, cf. _M. of V._ ii. 4. 68, iv. 1.
truckle-bed." The former was for the master, the latter for the servant.
evening, as that in the great hall at the 'squires.  And now, by the
87. _In Mantua_, etc. No critic, so far as I am aware, has noted the
15. _Mickle._ Much, great; a word already half obsolete in the time of
was nothing for it but to keep her promise. So she took leave of her
much as they liked. They got so used to him, that the doors were never
beautiful, he said to her, "Will you go away with me?"
thrust it into the heart of the goat, which fell down dead.
Fortunato by an arm above the elbow.
that she would not wear anything else. So she was always called Little
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
Then the man went home, and when he got there, he found a great stone
"A good quarter of an hour farther on in the wood. Her house stands
"None, sir, none. I am proud to say that I had no interest in the
and political world."
"Bogs make queer noises sometimes. It's the mud settling, or the
amusement when I come to town, so I spent it at the Museum of the
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.--
_Prince._ This letter doth make good the friar's words,
115. _The worshipp'd sun._ Cf. iii. 2. 25 below: "And pay no worship to
V
keeping. And from this time forth, every one could once more go into
which could go to a jury. Even Stapleton's attempt upon Sir Henry
bed, and set his Magic Table against the wall.
thousand bits.
might be taken away from him, it gave him such a shock that for a
things. Your advice, then, as I understand it, is that the young
That idles in the wanton summer air,
a prehistoric skull which fills him with great joy. Never was
He was surprised that she knew about her, but kept silence. When they
position make her pass in lucid review, and in the most natural and
cold.
the other rode forward and reached a great forest.
it was necessary to cut away hollow places in the benches in the House
An she agree, within her scope of choice,
of, one of them had to be left at home.
seemed to have a fascination for him, and his eyes were
known this legend."
To Lammas-tide?
_prolixity_ of such introductions I believe Romeo is made to allude. So
that time. So his name was Sherlock Holmes, was it?"
"Queer place, the moor!" said he.
"My name is little Snow-White," she answered.
Rosaline is of the Capulet family.
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
dress. They never once thought of Ash-Maiden, and believed that she was
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
"Oh, the brood of liars!" cried the tailor, "each as wicked and
to her quite like a friend, and told her that his heart had been so
him that she had had a very strange dream. "I was carried through the
them apart and carried them far away.
Then they laughed and said, "Indeed, stupid Hans! where will you get a
hand
[Illustration]
There was once on a time, a man who was about to set out on a long
difficult and most complicated business. There are several points
_Paris._ Beguil'd, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
"Yes, indeed," answered the maiden, "but the little Roe must go with
What is her burying grave that is her womb,                       10
202, etc.
Within himselfe he sayd to her, thou iustly mayst thee boste.
away the dish, was overcome with such curiosity that he could not help
28. _And there an end._ Cf. _T.G. of V._ i. 3. 65, ii. 1. 168, _Rich.
Stapleton turned a ghastly face upon us, but by a supreme effort
pseudo-platanus_, which grows wild in Italy. It had been introduced into
was delighted to see her pretty plaything once more, and picked it up,
led to my discovery. You would have wished to tell me something,
Only do not allow her to say farewell to her parents first, or it will
one farther on, and ran after it, and thus got deeper and deeper into
then the music ceased, as I have told; and the evolutions of the
And as soon as the secret was out, the splendid castle with the
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
stirred over the vast expanse save a pair of ravens, which
The old King commanded him to drive his flock out again next day, and
wood. But with every word she spoke, gold pieces fell from her mouth,
and a general air of peering benevolence. As he entered his eyes
121. _Be my speed._ Cf. _Hen. V._ v. 2. 194: "Saint Denis be my speed!"
85. _Healths_, etc. Malone quotes _Westward Hoe_, 1607: "troth, sir, my
[Illustration]
less delighted to see their little sister, but their joy was short.
apology or justification; and the prose preface was written to serve as
company; and it is supremely in character that on such an occasion he
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
not forget the Roe, but went into the corner where he lay, and stroked
At night, she was again led in, and when she began to relate how ill
would naturally, under strong and unusual excitement, and in the
They are encrusted with nitre."
See also _T.N._ i. 1. 12 and _Lear_, i. 1. 83.
"The folk on the countryside."
peasants, and that the legend of the demon dog received a new
116. _Cousin._ Some editors adopt the "kinsman" of 1st quarto; but
and in the morning an apple was gone.
went forward, until darkness came on, then he climbed a tree, intending
and trembling in every limb. We helped him to a rock, where he
wanted one of its feathers.
desired. On the day of the crisis, however, his wife turned
Draw me the thread,
figure, which in other respects is exactly like the old figure first put
"Good-bye, Grethel."
"Not after he went into the station."
_Macb._ i. 2. 19, etc.), then a spoiled favourite, and hence a pert or
facts. My submission pleased him and led him to further
And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, "Lenore?"
The people of England in general, of late years, have discouraged these
The front door was open, so we rushed in and hurried from room to
With stretched handes to thee for mercy now I crye,
drops of perspiration stood on his forehead, and ran, hot and cold,
from the day which succeeded that upon which I had established
have been made towards clearing one incident in this chain of
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
We must talk in secret.--Nurse, come back again;
"Now go home to your King, and tell him he had better send some more
thirsty."
complicated through the incident of the escaped convict and the
driven away your child, who is so good and lovable. No harm has come
And when she rose up and the King's Son looked at her face he
For nedy lacke is lyke the poore man to compell
"I thought all for the best."
black business was that he should have been deceived by her.
That I yet know not?
It came to pass that from the two pieces that were buried in the
does not even come home to eat."
11. _Marriage._ A trisyllable here; as in _M. of V._ ii. 9. 13, etc. So
adventures had shattered his nerves, and before morning he lay
was a son of that Rodger Baskerville, the younger brother of Sir
meal was over and we were able to retire into the modern
And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
To such a greeting. Villain am I none,
And as soon as a few wreaths of smoke had ascended the Little Man was
"He had left his own marks all over that small patch of gravel. I
"For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
"Grethe, that is the third."
at present, which will probably swallow up the remainder of his
"Surely you are mistaken about his trade?"
honest man you will record this also and set it against my
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
night."
him with a heavy heart, and the Roe, full of health and joy, bounded
An aucient dame she calde to her, and in her eare gan rounde.[5]
misinterpreted by some of the best critics. Coleridge says that she
settee and blew little wavering rings of smoke up to the ceiling.
"On the contrary, I have been to Devonshire."
way. "Stop," said he, "I shall not be content with this. If I can but
Which as they kiss consume; the sweetest honey
_Juliet._ I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news.
believe, exceedingly hazy, but that he meant mischief from the
she went on scraping, and made the hole so large that he was able to
ought?"
leading up, "step by step, to this climax of the accumulated horrors,
kiss. But as soon as he kissed her, Briar-Rose opened her eyes and
Then the King took counsel what was best to be done. At last, it was
"I tell you what," said the Donkey, "I am going to Bremen, and shall
supplied by a boy. It was on his track, and not upon the
After hearing the Friar's story, the Prince says:--
wife."
She's not well married that lives married long,
So in her great thirst the Princess alighted, bent down over the water
112-118. _Eyes ... bark._ Whiter points out a coincidence between this
Little Snow-White had no suspicion, but stood before her, and let
there quietly spinning, nodding her head and never looking round. The
"A good trade," replied the old man; "but what have you brought back
to you, and yet you should still not be able to break a piece off."
Virtue, another Beauty, a third Riches, and so on with everything in
16.  The Spanish general's shield of honour.
[Picture: Decorative pattern with swords]
with all splendor, and they lived contented to the end of their days.
often placed on the top of towers, as at Boston, Lincolnshire," etc. The
That almost freezes up the heat of life;
she said, "God still helps me," and opened the casket that the Sun had
40. _Simples._ Medicinal herbs. Cf. _R. of L._ 530, _Ham._ iv. 7. 145,
dumb, he heard them lamenting that they must perish so miserably. As he
give you one of them," and he opened his pouch and handed her the bad
"_Looking-Glass, Looking-Glass, on the wall,
_Romeo._ Nay, that's not so.
Forgetting any other home but this.
_Lady Capulet._ We follow thee.--[_Exit Servant._] Juliet, the county
chambermaid, went into the room where the Queen lay, and said to her,
deep. The knight has drunk so much health to the gentleman yonder, upon
on the hard ground, to pass the night there. Just before sunset she
as many of them into his stomach as they could get in. And the mother
"I presume, Doctor, that you could tell the skull of a negro from
to have more company, and so you will need changes in your
"And why were you holding a candle to the window?"
THE THREE BROTHERS                                                86
Three Broken Threads
divided between them the great treasure which the Dwarf had gathered
the following may be mentioned: Mabie's _William Shakespeare: Poet,
SCENE IV. _A Room in Capulet's House_
But fortune would so have it, that he once more drew out the Gold Fish.
At the prefixed hour of her waking,
The Editor's acknowledgments are due to the following texts:
"youthfull woorke." He has decided to publish it, but "The rest (unlickt
I could draw nothing further from him, and he walked, lost in
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
first sight of the moor," said Dr. Mortimer, pointing out of the
lying in it. "Do I find thee here, thou old sinner!" said he. "I have
The camel feeds entirely on vegetables.  Not only pencils and brushes for
24, and v. 3. 111 below. The title of one of Richard Braithwaite's
"Why, you look very serious over it."
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes;
found here, we feel it to be one of those passing discords that produce
serve it: you may also print of this _marchpane_ paste in your molds for
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
from your lips, all your work will be lost."
been there, his doom would none the less have been sealed. A
leave you."
"What should cause that," said the youngest, "but the warm weather? I
eyes upon me.
The Cask of Amontillado
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.
But at midnight, when all slept, the nurse, who was sitting in the
it cooked on till the kitchen, and the whole house was full, and then
Tracey."
much of a wealthy man to come down and bury himself in a place of
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed.
9.  A battle-axe with a pistol at the end.
47. _Five wits._ Cf. _Much Ado_, i. 1. 66: "four of his five wits went
sorry for all that had passed, and he recognized how foolish and
_Lady Capulet._ Hold, take these keys and fetch more spices, nurse.
dramatist had no further use for him after the quarrel with Tybalt which
carrying the cane to the window, he looked over it again with a
The young King rejoiced with all his heart when he saw her beauty and
The first quarto is much shorter than the second, the former having only
"What do they call this sound?" he asked.
"_I have eaten so much,
may fancy themselves at a farm in the country; the fields look so green,
heard a rustling, and saw six Swans come flying in at the window.
But she knew not what answer to make to this, and stood for a time in
tell your father."
gold into the bargain."
bosom of Romeo a previous love for another. His visionary passion for
at the window. The tailor opened it, and Cousin Longlegs came carefully
"There I shall at once find the reward of my good deed," said the
"Why was it bad?"
[Picture: Drawing Goods in a Truck]
"There is beyonde the Alps, a towne of auncient fame
Men, shook hands with each of them, and ran home to take the woman what
Then she was astounded, for she knew that the Looking-Glass never spoke
rest for once, and enter that beautiful castle. I have certainly money
preoccupations and able to come down to take this heavy burden of
62. _Married._ The reading of 2d quarto; the other early eds. have
household, as you are such a clever Elsie, I will have you," and he
rose early, wishing to see whether his daughter's husband was a common
Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
amazed her.
_Enter_ ROMEO
spirits I cannot take a truce," etc. _Spleen_ = heat, impetuosity. Cf.
sugar-plums at them. Cf. Beaumont and Fletcher, _Faithful Friends_, iii.
any difficulty, come to the forest and cry, 'Iron John,' and then I
It was not long before some one knocked at the house-door, and cried,
it again now, that never yet have we helped to hunt down a more
She danced till it was evening, and then she wanted to go home. But the
o'clock in a summer's morning, it is completely full of the most rare and
"How?" said he.  "Amontillado?  A pipe?  Impossible!  And in the middle
without troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to
_image_, etc. So _spirit_, _inter'gatories_, _unpleasant'st_, and other
_Nurse._ Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
little while you will come to a tree, whereon nine birds are sitting
to the advantage of both parties by promoting a friendly intercourse with
They again insisted that the tree was their property. Whilst they were
bandied both; a set of wit well play'd," etc. See on iii. 1. 91 below.
"The company had come to a halt, more sober men, as you may
said our visitor. "Why in thunder should anyone follow or watch
Then the old cook scolded and said, "You simpletons, you should have
Permit me to give you an extract from it.
yourself about them, for they will all be asleep and snoring.
_2 Capulet._ 'Tis more, 'tis more! His son is elder, sir;         40
come round and lunch with us at two. I'll be able to tell you
Well, certainly, this is a wonderful sight;
discussion.
thought of losing her was really terrible to him. He had not
158. _In a fool's paradise._ Malone cities _A handfull of Pleasant
See also _R. of L._ 318, _T. of S._ iv. 1. 48, and _2 Hen. IV._ v. 5. 1.
"But how about his food?"
"It seems natural, does it not? And yet, consider that every
12. _Two hours._ Cf. _Hen. VIII._ prol. 13: "may see away their shilling
"Certainly, there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand."
London streets, in dry weather, are very dusty; this, when the wind blows
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.--
If I had not done that, I should have lost my life."
Once upon a time, a certain King was hunting in a great forest, and he
put them to that purgation, how slyly the pretty puss gives him the
Of all the days of the year, upon that day,
_Enter_ FRIAR LAURENCE _and_ ROMEO
night. Incredible as it may appear to you, Mr. Holmes, he was
meant, and I will promise to convey your warning to Sir Henry."
as we call it, upon the moor, some slinking away and some,
hard, and stern, with a firm-set, thin-lipped mouth, and a coldly
cupboard in the castle in which, when you open it, shall be dishes of
Hans comes to Grethel. "Good day, Grethel."
Hans answered, "To Grethel."
touch of remorseful tenderness in her lamentations over her, which adds
not know that, you are not the true Bride."
iii. 5. 3, where Dogberry says, "Marry, sir, I would have some
122. _Depend._ Impend (Schmidt). Cf. _R. of L._ 1615: "In me moe woes
*       *       *       *       *
"That is the true Bride!"
the King and told him all.
that the beautiful young Queen was soon suffocated.
have it for breakfast.  As every one knows the business of a milkmaid, I
fixed a time when they should all come home again, and then each went
_Balthasar._ I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.          40
But 'tis no wit to go.
the rose, thistle, and shamrock, with the letters G. R.  Their heads are
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit.
enterprise,' etc. And he turned it thus into verse (1st folio, p.
Other abbreviations that hardly need explanation are _Cf._ (_confer_,
The sun had set and dusk was settling over the moor. The air had
The desire shall pass away!" and she fetched a butcher's knife, and
So she went continually farther and farther, in the wide world, never
When you were in the fountain strange,
The King asked, "Who are you? What are you doing on the tree?"
he shared the popular view upon the matter.
108. _Sorted out._ Cf. _1. Hen. VI._ ii. 3. 27: "I'll sort some other
there ready prepared, and was about to carry it up. But on the way,
Nor need you travel there;
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
Thus the lord got back his wealth, and Doctor Knowall received a large
"This will do," said he. "These rocks upon the right make an
and then she was to come back again.
destroyed, and not one stone be left standing on another."
40. _To see thee married once._ Once see thee married.
"I will wait for the next spring."
"_Turn and peep, turn and peep,
"Well, now, that is real kind of you, Dr. Watson," said he. "You
While the five were trotting thus one behind the other, two laborers
'Twere a chance if they rose o'er a couple of pence;
have been taken from nothing else. As it was done yesterday the
print.
could do no more."
to the King's beautiful Daughter, who had now no more excuses left to
